sir.santa/2024/20240223-you-have-received.md, before:

# "You have received a secure message"

Somebody please make it stop! <br/>
I get these. Not often, but more often than I should.

They invariably lead me to some *other* service,
which kinda grates against the whole idea of email.
I use an email "client". Think MS Outlook or Mozilla Thunderbird.

I got another just yesterday, so I got annoyed and decided to say
something.

[below]
And I know what's in that latest message:
I had used my HSA card to pay for a prescription.


## You have received a secure message from ...

Say there's a certain party that I do business with.
Maybe it's the insurance company. Maybe it's the doctor.
I appreciate that they want to keep our correspondence private.
Thank you! Sincerely. But you can do better.
You really *should* do better.

The trouble with most "secured" services is that they make you
jump through hoops to interact, even to converse. More frustrating
than the inconvenience\* is that the burden of multiple factors
is one sided: my financial advisor can send and receive secure email
to/from me, but on his end it's integrated, built-into the interface
that he uses. (E.g., an Outlook plug-in or something similar)
It's only *my* side where I have to break out of whatever I normally do
and go to his special super-secure site and jump through hoops.

\* I say "inconvenience" but it's more than just hassle.
It's a time sink, and it's potentially *less* secure because of
the complexity. (More things to get wrong.)

Maybe it was subconscious that the in-house operation (for the financial
advisor example) would be built-into his email. Or maybe the IT department
got push-back. I used to work for a company that sold a secure email
solution. You know ... an "integrated" one. (And that product is the
premier in its market space, top of the line, best of breed.)
Even theirs has trouble with "outsiders". But that one at least had
a way to extend to the PGP world. Read on.

## Been There / Done That

How many times have we had to go *back* to some older method
when the newfangled turned out to be less effective?

Secure email has been available for more than *three decades*.
In fact, what we had "back in the day" was *better* (in terms of
actual *security*) than what we have now. Showing my hand,
I'm talking about PGP.

"Oh, but PGP is too hard." <br/>
Nonsense. Harder than the multi-step convoluted path of following
links to supposed secure sites? That's simply not a right assessment.

PGP is the most well-understood privacy tool on the planet.
It is well-integrated into several email client programs.
But ... you prefer a web interface? ... that can be done.
(Personally, I would not. But then, I keep my keys on my own keyring.
Others are comfortable handing off to a valet.) It's all about trust.

Some people just don't like PGP. Maybe it's the "not invented here"
syndrome. Or maybe they're low on the PGP learning curve. The thing
about facts is they kinda don't care what you like or dislike.
No matter how you feel: facts remain. PGP is widely deployed,
well established, heavily used among the security conscious,
and has been throroughly analyzed.

<!--                                                                 -->

## Here's the Ask

To my insurers, banks, medical providers, financial advisors,
and even my employers: take my public PGP key and use it.
Establish your own PGP key pair (or several, one per agent)
and send that to me. We can "vet" each other and ever afterward
carry on secure communication, and other interactions, without
you having to re-invent the wheel. Let security roll smoothly.

These days we do everything remotely, but I will gladly get up
from my ergonomic armchair and come in-person to your office
or branch location. I'll give you my PGP public key. You'll know
beyond any doubt that it's *mine* at least as well as you know
I'm the actual human opening the account.

## More to Say

I'll keep this short (some say "too late!"),
so I'll skip all the reasons why secure email is better than
custom conversation code. I won't bother with how and why PGP
is better for privacy than PKI. We can talk about that.
I'd *like* to talk about all of that. But I don't expect
business or medical or (certainly not) governmental bodies
to have the background for that discussion.

2024-02-23 Friday

Commit message:

updated "you have received" after review

sir.santa/2024/20240223-you-have-received.md, after:

# "You have received a secure message"

Somebody please make it stop! <br/>
I get these. Not often, but more often than I should.

You know what I'm talking about: email or some other message telling you
that you have a secure message and now must do thus-and-so to read it.

They invariably lead me to some *other* service,
which kinda grates against the whole idea of email.
I use an email "client". Think MS Outlook or Mozilla Thunderbird.

I got another of these just yesterday,
so I got annoyed and decided to say something.



## You have received a secure message from ...

Say there's a certain party that I do business with.
Maybe it's the insurance company. Maybe it's the doctor.
I appreciate that they want to keep our correspondence private.
Thank you! Sincerely. But, providers, you can do better.
You really *should* do better.

The trouble with most "secured" services is that they make you
jump through hoops to interact, even to converse. More frustrating
than the inconvenience\* is that the burden of multiple factors
is one sided: my financial advisor can send and receive secure email
to/from me, but on his end it's integrated, built-into the interface
that he uses. (E.g., an Outlook plug-in or something similar)
It's only *my* side where I have to break out of whatever I normally do
and go to his special super-secure site and re-authenticate.

\* I say "inconvenience" but it's more than just hassle.
It's a time sink, and it's potentially *less* secure because of
the complexity. (More things to get wrong.) Complexity is corrosive
to security.

Maybe it was subconscious that the in-house operation (for the financial
advisor example) would be built-into his email. Or maybe the IT department
got push-back. I used to work for a company that sold a secure email
solution. You know ... an "integrated" one. (And that product is the
premier in its market space, top of the line, best of breed.)
Even theirs has trouble with "outsiders". But that one at least had
a way to extend to the PGP world. Read on.

## Been There / Done That

How many times have we had to go *back* to some older method
when the newfangled turned out to be less effective?

Secure email has been available for more than *three decades*.
In fact, what we had "back in the day" was *better* (in terms of
actual *security*) than what we have now. Showing my hand,
I'm talking about PGP.

"Oh, but PGP is too hard." <br/>
Nonsense. Harder than the multi-step convoluted path of following
links to supposed secure sites? That's simply not a right assessment.

PGP is the most well-understood privacy tool on the planet.
It is well-integrated into several email client programs.
But ... you prefer a web interface? ... that can be done.
(Personally, I would not. But then, I keep my keys on my own keyring.
Others are comfortable handing off to a valet.) It's all about trust.

Some people just don't like PGP. Maybe it's the "not invented here"
syndrome. Or maybe they're low on the PGP learning curve. The thing
about facts is they kinda don't care what you like or dislike.
No matter how you feel: facts remain. PGP is widely deployed,
well established, heavily used among the security conscious,
and has been throroughly analyzed.

<!--                                                                 -->

## Here's the Ask

To my insurers, banks, medical providers, financial advisors,
and even my employers: take my public PGP key and use it.
Establish your own PGP key pair (or several, one per agent)
and send that to me. We can "vet" each other and ever afterward
carry on secure communication, and other interactions, without
you having to re-invent the wheel. Let security roll smoothly.

These days we do everything remotely, but I will gladly get up
from my ergonomic armchair and come in-person to your office
or branch location. I'll give you my PGP public key. You'll know
beyond any doubt that it's *mine* at least as well as you know
I'm the actual human opening the account.

I know what's in that latest message:
I had used my HSA card to pay for a prescription.
The card issuer is simply confirming the transaction.
And, again, it's legit that it should be kept private.
But the level of effort is way out of line with the significance
of the message. Give me PGP and the "work" (on my end) would
immediately fall back to a proportionate level.

## More to Say

I'll keep this short (some say "too late!"),
so I'll skip all the reasons why secure email is better than
custom conversation code. I won't bother with how and why PGP
is better for privacy than PKI. We can talk about that.
I'd *like* to talk about all of that. But I don't expect
business or medical or (certainly not) governmental bodies
to have the background for that discussion.

2024-02-23 Friday
