# End of a Year, End of an Era

Earlier in the evening,
someone said something about revisiting some part of 2019.
I think it was something like, what part of the past year
would you want to re-live?

## The Year from Hell

The companion blog to this blog is a tribute,
so I won't bitch and moan as much there. But here all bets are off.

I don't like how the story has gone.

Sometime last year,
Marilyn, Martin, and I went to see a certain very popular movie
from a very successful franchise. I STRONGLY disliked how it ended
and said so. I remember telling Martin at the time, it's a STORY and the
authors could have written it differently. I was so angered by this film
that I committed to not watching its sequel. (Which I have been told is
a better movie and which I have no doubt resolves what offended me.)
But I'm angry, and they don't need my money anyway.

The Author of our story can write it any way He chooses.
I don't like how this has ended. It's better for Marilyn, I can't argue.
But what about my daughter who can now NEVER talk to her mom for advice?
What about my son who can now NEVER call-up Mom for a helping hand?
And what about me? I put up with being alone for all those months
(it was tolerable when temporary) now only to be PERMANENTLY alone.
It sucks. I can't just leave the theater. I can't skip the sequel.
I'm stuck in it.

The house is now a time capsule.
It sits there just as we left it after the Ohio service for my wife.
We have a networked camera (which Marilyn bought, like EVERYTHING ELSE
of value in my life) and I'm looking at the den right now. It's all
the same, just like we left it Dec 18th, frozen in time.

Time ... I hate time. But I wish we had more of it.


