README.md, before:

# blog

This repository serves as an alternative to other web-logging (blogging) services.

If you're a techie, it's probably okay, maybe even cool, to use a service
like Git for a journal or blog. If you're a normal person, it might be a
little weird. Sorry about that and please bear with me.

It's also a learning experience.
For one thing, I don't really know that four blogs should be
under a single "project" (in Git speak), so things might chane.

## Marilyn

This blog is a tribute to my wife who left us 2019-December-14.

https://github.com/trothr/blog/tree/master/Marilyn/

I hit the jackpot when I married her. My goal with this blog is to
honor the wife I knew, the life she lived, the legacy she leaves,
and to give proper credit to God who loves her and loves me.

## Richard

This blog is my personal story, sometime rant/bitch/moan/cry outlet.

https://github.com/trothr/blog/tree/master/Richard/

My goal wth this blog is to share what has been happening with Rick.
When peole ask, "How are you?", I don't mind retelling, but I sometimes
lose track of details. Some details are here so that I don'g forget.

## Sir Santa

Some entries for the Sir Santa blog may also be found on Blogspot.com.

https://sirsanta.blogspot.com/

## Truth Cowboy

Some entries for the Truth Cowboy blog may also be found on Blogspot.com.

https://rick-troth.blogspot.com/

Commit message:

updated README, now links to all four journals in this project

README.md, after:

# blog

This repository serves as an alternative to other web-logging (blogging) services.

If you're a techie, it's probably okay, maybe even cool, to use a service
like Git for a journal or blog. If you're a normal person, it might be a
little weird. Sorry about that and please bear with me.

It's also a learning experience.
For one thing, I don't really know that four blogs should be
under a single "project" (in Git speak), so things might change.

## Marilyn

This blog is a tribute to my wife who left us 2019-December-14.

https://github.com/trothr/blog/tree/master/Marilyn/

I hit the jackpot when I married her. My goal with this blog is to
honor the wife I knew, the life she lived, the legacy she leaves,
and to give proper credit to God who loves her and loves me.

## Richard

This blog is my personal story, sometime rant/bitch/moan/cry outlet.

https://github.com/trothr/blog/tree/master/Richard/

My goal wth this blog is to share what has been happening with Rick.
When peole ask, "How are you?", I don't mind retelling, but I sometimes
lose track of details. Some details are here so that I don'g forget.

## Sir Santa

This blog is where I talk tech. The Knights of VM called me "Sir Santa".

https://github.com/trothr/blog/tree/master/sir.santa/

Some entries for the Sir Santa blog may also be found on Blogspot.com.

https://sirsanta.blogspot.com/

## Truth Cowboy

This blog is where I talk truth, to the extent I am able.

https://github.com/trothr/blog/tree/master/truth.cowboy/

Some entries for the Truth Cowboy blog may also be found on Blogspot.com.

https://rick-troth.blogspot.com/
