# Why Me?

Lots of people reading my rantings these days would expect me to post
"why me?". But this isn't the "why me?" you're probably thinking of.

I've had serious recent personal tragedy: my wife of 33 years,
Marilyn, the mother of my two children, the organizer of my life,
passed away from cancer on December 14th. It's been hell without her.

But this isn't about that.

## Something Good

There's a story that burns within me.
The "why me?" is: why was *I* given the privilege?

God created us.

Go read [Genesis chapters 1, 2, and 3](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=genesis%201-3&version=NASB).

We listened to a lie. We disobeyed clear instruction from God.
We sinned and as a result the earth was cursed.

Don't just blame Adam and Eve. Romans 3:23 says ...

"for *all* have sinned and fall short of the glory of God"

(emphasis mine)

Years later, God, whose nature is beyond our understanding,
came to earth. That was Jesus. He walked with us and talked with us.

Then II Corinthians chapter 5 verse 21 makes it clear:

"For He made Him who knew no sin to be sin for us
that we might become the righteousness of God in Him."

How many have read this or heard it and not recognized the significance?

## A Promise

In Genesis chapter 3, God spoke to the serpent, saying ...

"And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed
and her Seed; He shall bruise your head and you shall bruise His heel."

Consider this, part of Romans chapter 16, verse 20 ...

"And the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly."

God made it clear that He would defeat the tempter.

Chapter 3 of Genesis is the sad part of the story.
But God promised even then that a better chapter was coming.

Throughout the rest of the Hebrew scriptures,
God's promise of redemption is repeated many times.

## Why Me?

This is the message:
Forgiveness, salvation, eternity with your creator
is a free gift. You cannot earn it. You cannot buy it.
You can only receive it.

So why me? Why was I entrusted with this message? (II Cor 4:7)

I earnestly want my friends and family to know this:

*Don't leave this life without embracing God's gift, your salvation.*

Why was I allowed to even *hear* the message?
But God desires all men to be saved (I Timothy 2:4).

II Peter 3:9 says (in part) that God is ... 

*"... not willing that any should perish
but that all should come to repentance."*

God loves us, even me, and has a plan.

## Eternity In My Face

With Marilyn's passing, eternity is right there in front of me.

What happens when we die? (Not that I'm anxious to experience it!)

When the Huaorani were killing Nate Saint, Jim Elliot, and their
colleagues, Ed, Pete, Roger, the killers "heard singing from above
the trees.". They reportedly looked up and saw a canopy of bright lights.

There have been others. You've probably heard stories from your own
family and friends. Hallucination or heaven? Hard to tell. Then too,
in Acts chapter 7 starting with verse 54, especially verse 56,
we have the stoning of Stephen ...

"... and [Stephen] said, 'Look! I see the heavens opened
and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God!'"

The best picture of eternity is found in Revelation chapter 21.
There are glimpses throughout scripture.

It's not so much eternity, but rather our own temporariness that bugs me.
We're all gonna die. Not today, and most "not for a long time", but how
long is "a long time"? This life is finite.

Ecclesiastes 3:11 says ... 

"He has made everything beautiful in its time. Also He has put eternity
in their hearts, except that no one can find out the work that God does
from beginning to end."

Once upon a time, I would have thought 33 years was "a long time".
I don't think that anymore, you can understand.

## Trust Him

I recently heard this and forget now where ...

"You can always trust the Man who died for you."

In my generation, we use the phrase "trust Christ" to mean
a point of decision, the time when the sinner steps into faith.
Words fail. It's difficult to say this without sounding cliché,
but don't let words put you off, and don't *you* put off
putting your faith in Christ.

You can trust Him. He is trustworthy. You can test Him,
as Nabeel Qureshi did (and Lee Strobel and Josh McDowell
and countless others). Check it out!

But you can't "borrow" faith, nor inherit it.
I'm not a Christian because my parents were Christians.
I deeply miss my wife's faith, though it was never my salvation.

You can't borrow *time* either. My life is evidence of that.
(And millions have things much worse than I do, shorter time together,
less happiness to remember, harder tragedy in the end.)

It's in Acts chapter 16 verses 30 and 31:

*And he brought them out and said, "Sirs, what must I do to be saved?"*

*So they said, "Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved,
you and your household."*

It sounds too simple. But you're sitting there in a chair.
You put blind faith in that chair to hold you up, and it does.
This is like Indiana Jones taking his leap of faith. You always wanted
to be Indiana Jones; now's your chance!

Also see Ephesians chapter 2, verses 8 and 9:

"For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that no of yourselves;
it is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast."

## Tremble

One of my favorite songs is
["Tremble" by Nichole Nordeman](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vt-MRp1Q3BI).

*Have I come too casually?
Because it seems to me there's something I've neglected.*

*How does one approach a deity
with informality and still protect the sacred?*

He left a THRONE. He died. He rose. Years later, I also heard the story.

I was stubborn, but He never let me go!
God's love is incredible! (Romans 8:38,39)

Why me?
Because He loves us that much, even me.

If you want to talk about this or have questions
or want to know more, feel free to call me or send email.

2020-03-08 Sunday, 2020-03-19 Thursday


