# Continental Divide

This note is to Christians in the USA.
Y'all from elsewhere are free to read our mail here (and please do),
but that's the audience.

I've had a growing angst over the lack of dialogue over important issues.
This is even more pressing when I see divisions among Christians.


## Two Wrongs

It's been said that two wrongs don't make a right.
But it's so tempting to come out swinging: when you're wronged
you want the other guy to feel it.

What if the other guy is a Brother?

*"... but brother goes to law against brother, and that before
unbelievers?"* -- II Corintians 6:6

Not all our grievances are against other Christians. What then?
Punch someone who needs the Lord? Even though they deserve it,
you've blown your opportunity to witness. The impact could have
a terrible eternal consequence.

## Two Sides

Got a coin handy?
Look at it. What do you see? Heads? Tails? Which is it?

We can only see one side of a coin at a time. It's nature.
It's one of the laws of the universe God placed us in.
It's also a good analogy for other things.

Sometimes the conflict is lack of balance.
Or sometimes the conflict is our obsession with the side we can see.

# Navigating the Non-Negotiables

It's interesting, on reflection, and a recent conversation with a
good friend. I started this journal entry months ago, and just this week
was talking with my buddy about non-negotiables. (Sorry ... digression.)

Some things are worth dividing over. If you've got a *real* conviction
about something, then you might have to part ways with a contrary crowd.
Think about it. For example, we value life, especially human life
because humans carry the imago dei. (Genesis 1:26-27) So when encountering
a person or a group of people who truly don't value human life, don't
"unite" with them.
These things *must* be decided *before* you get into
some crisis or tight spot where you have to decide under stress.

What do you believe?

## Making a List

Someone I follow on Twitter is a young fellow named Samuel D. James.
He writes. He's getting a good reputation. Smart kid. Turns out Sam
published "a list".

Below is
from his substack. While I dabble in Twitter,
I don't take the time for substack. My dear friend Glenn Vanderburg
pointed out this one to me.

https://samueldjames.substack.com/p/you-cant-possibly-believe-that

I mostly agree.
Some of the wording is not how I would say it,
and some points need the back story. My rendition is here:

1. Christianity is the only eternal hope for any individual or society.

2. The Church must be genuinely attentive to its own failures
 and shortcomings
out of faithfulness to the Lord.

3. A disproportionate emphasis on the failures of the church in your mind
and in your conversation is untrue and therefore unwise.

4. The sexual revolution has wreaked devastation on millions of people
and spread toxic untruths about marriage, gender identity, and children.

5. Many American churches in particular have, over the years, taught and
applied sexual ethics in a way that harmed people (especially women) and
pushed them toward shame and hopelessness rather than restoration.

6. Much of the discourse about "purity culture" in evangelicalism
is part of a conscious effort to put the teachings of the church in line
with the sexual revolution.

7. Authority is an intrinsic good and hierarchies are both natural and
divinely instituted for human well-being.

8. The abuse of authority is a sin that affects other people
even more than "secret sins".

9. Human tradition is valuable and should not be set aside lightly or on
the basis solely of changing popular opinion.

10. Tradition is made for man, not man for tradition.

11. America's history is filled with a lot of good, truth, and beauty.

12. America's history is also filled with much injustice,
especially racially-based injustice.

13. Correcting that injustice requires change to many laws
and cultural institutions.

14. Endlessly remindnig people of racially-based injustice is a pathway
toward resentment and estrangement, not justice.

15. Abortion is wrong.

16. Ending abortion must be pursued by just and moral means.

17. Sexual abuse is a heinous sin.

18. A discrepancy between the "power" of two people does not automatically
make all sexual contact between them abuse, since power differentials
in some sense are inevitable.

19. It is possible for a political party to become intrinsically unjust
through its platform.

20. The morally unjust status of one political party's platform
does not create a moral mandate to support a competing party.
(But, per Robert's rules, simply abstaining means supporting the winner.)

21. There is a culture war, and it matters.

22. Winning that culture war is not the most important thing for Christians.

23. There is such a thing as a Christian philosophy or "worldview".

24. The gospel is central to a Christian worldview.

## Fitting In and Choosing Sides

These are all true.
Brother Samuel then goes on to consider the impact
on a person who holds to them all. Where does he fit?

If you believe item #5, you
 will be accused in some circles of "giving in to culture" and adopting
 a "non-Christian framework."

If you believe item #6, you will be
 accused in other circles of being cruelly indifferent toward the
 sufferings of others, and of "erasing" their stories.

If you believe
 item #13, some Christian writers will declare that you are woke.

If you believe item #14, other Christian writers will call you complicit
 in white supremacy.


Do you believe #15? I do, because the unborn are people too.
And I'm on record, if that which resides in the womb is not a person,
then it's removal is not wrong. But we can't seem to even discuss it.

What about #16? If unborn babies deserve to live because they too bear
the imago dei, that's also true of those who provide abortive services.
Blowing up abortion clinics is wrong.

I'm an indirect victim of #17 and I have close friends who are victims.
(Everything we do has an impact on others. EVERYTHING.)

SDJ goes on. Read his substack article.
In the end, the question burns, where does a person
who sees both sides of the coin belong?
Bluntly, why do YOU reject your BROTHER who (like you)
can only see one side at a time?

*"... the high cost of careful thinking becomes more intolerable."*

We need to be able to DISCUSS without "cancelling" each other.

## Sinners Redeemed

Jesus came into the world to save sinners, and I am no better.
I Timothy 1:15. And neither are you.

The secluar mind does not want to think about sin.
Sadly, when we talk about it, they hear judgement but not redemption.
They can't see the other side of the coin, so they push away the messenger.
But we are not judging anyone: we have simply found forgiveness!
Remember that! Remind your lost friends and family when they
accuse you of being judgemental. And don't judge them,
but do eschew their excesses. (I Peter 4:4)

## Sanctification Journey

Many have well said, God accepts as as we are and loves us TOO MUCH
to leave us that way. Amen! "For this is the will of God, your
sanctification: that you should abstain from sexual immorality; ...".
God has called us to holiness. We have treated that too lightly.

Why is sex such a big deal to God? I don't know, but it is.
And a big part of sanctification involves sexual purity.
It goes without saying that the other things must not be neglected.
Sexuality reflects on character. It's also intensely personal.

It's clear throughout the New Testament that our growth takes time.
Remember I Timothy 5:22. Also remember Romans 12:1-2.

Also read Ephesians 4:14-16. Continue the growth!

## Have Mercy

See Romans 14:1 and extend grace to your Brethren who are not as far
along their road as you are along yours. This does not mean you should
abandon purity. Scripture never says that.

Don't neglect your own growth.
As it says in Hebrews 5:12-14, some of us are still on milk.

Serve one another! (Galatians 5:13-14) Build each other up!

## Not of This World

Philippians 3:20 says that our citizenship is in Heaven. But too often,
we have tried to establish a heaven here on Earth. Sometimes our efforts
begin innocently enough, merely wanting to support those things which
are good which have come about by the Grace of God. (The US Constitution
for one thing.) But we go too far when we presume that these things
will establish some sort of utopia.

Jesus said it Himself: "My kingdom is not of this world.". (John 18:36)
Check out Matthew 6:19-21 and remember to store-up treasure in HEAVEN.
This world is not our home! We are just passing through. (Even the lost
are just passing through, and they know it if they are honest.)

And if we'll be together in Heaven, we ought to learn to get along
even now while we're on Earth. I mean we and our Brethren. We fight
and condemn each other like Pharasees, splitting hairs over doctrine.
(I Corintians 6:6, Galatians 5:15)

## Litmus Tests

In the US, many of us have said, "I support Trump!".
Many others have said, "I cannot support Trump!".
Why should anyone (Christian or not) support Donal Trump?

One can clearly understand why the non-Christian "right" would vote
for Trump. Just as clear is why the "left" and even some so-called
conservatives would hate him. But why do CHRISTIANS divide?

In the 2016 presidential election, Trump was the candidate who claimed
to support life. Many of us voted for LIFE, while others were so offended
by the scandalous candidate that they could not choose him. And who can
blame them for being put off by a shameless womanizer? We were divided.

I will not recount my own sins and I'm not endorsing one party
over the other nor one candidate above another. But we SHOULD NOT DIVIDE
over some things. There are issues which are NOT NEGOTIABLE.

If "pro-life" versus "pro-abortion" is to be a litmus test,
then I for one am willing to break it down the fundamentals.
Is that which resides in the womb an individual human being?
If not, then it's not murder to excise it. But if so ...
oh how dreadful is our behavior as a nation these past five decades.

Proverbs 24:11-12 ...

*Deliver those who are drawn toward death, and hold back those stumbling
to the slaughter. If you say, "Surely we did not know this," does not He
Who weighs the hearts consider it? He who keeps your soul, does He not
know it? And will He not render to each man according to his deeds?*

## Forgiveness

Did you have an abortion?
Or did you encourage someone to do it?
Or do you have a friend or relative who has?
Forgive! If abortion is murder, then nail it to the Cross,
let Jesus blood cleanse you, your friend, your relative, and live!
Don't remain in the past. Don't lock them up in the past.

Fight the Good Fight. (I Timothy 1:18-20)
And it's okay to let a contrary friend or brother go their own way.
We are accountable to God for our own choices and actions.

Don't overload others with your personal convictions.
YES, pursue justice and mercy, but don't expect others to "get it"
with respect to what you've learned. Give grace.
See Acts 15:28-29.

## False Start February

Brethren,
while I've been wanting to share the great things God has done
over the past months, I was compelled to first talk about
our unity (or lack) as Believers in Jesus Christ.

I tried to write this back in Februrary. As so often happens,
the words didn't come and there was more thinking to be done.
And then came the piece by Mr. James. (Thanks, bro!)

This post is for my brothers and sisters in Christ.
It is not directed at you who are outside of that circle.
(All are welcome, but not all have partaken.)

We were under a common penalty of death.
We are now saved by a common Salvation, the shed Blood of Jesus Christ.

Why should divisions exist among US?
See I Corintians 1:10-15 and 11:17-19.

2022-07-30 Saturday

2022-02-20 Sunday


