# All In

I have decided to follow Jesus.
No turning back. No turning back.

And when I screw-up, I have to trust Him to fix it.

## Empty, But Filling

Since losing Marilyn, my life has been very empty.
As a Christian, I know my sufficiency is only in Him.
So what do I do?

Friends help. My mosh pit helps.
But it's unfair to expect them to hold me up continually,
so I've been leaning in *hard* all year. The results are good!

A long time before Marilyn got sick, I had lost purpose. I had even lost
the love of music. So when I lost her, I knew that I had more work to do
in addition to coping with grief. This has driven me to lean in harder.

It turns out that pursuing God really works.

I just wish Marilyn could be here to join in.

I've been told that grief affects everyone differently.
I've seen that healing happens at different rates for everyone.
Some of my friends and family see my progress and worry that I'm rushing,
missing a step or three. A few have begun to see me as selfish, or at least
self-centered. I don't blame them. What am I supposed to do?

## Unintended

I hurt someone recently. Not gonna say who.
It's not your business and I don't want to hurt them *worse*
by making them an object lesson about Rick's life.

The odd thing about unintentional missteps and malicious missteps
is that the consequences are often the same. I didn't mean to
inflict pain, but I did that in spades. Now I'm ashamed and sad.

So here I am today with another piece of brokenness, and this one's
my own fault. What to do? Lean *harder*? How do I do that? I'm so tired.
I've cried so much this year. Even in the healing, there are tears.
The odd thing about tears is that, whether sad or joyful, they take energy.

## Letting Go

The fallout from this recent fiasco comes back on me.
The progress I've made is in jeopardy.

Sometimes I seem to make the story all about me. I hate that.
When I try to connect the dots, if I'm in the equation then I'm in the
story. It's an unintended misstep, not trying to monopolize the story.
How do I refocus on the ones who need more attention? Dear God help me.

I can't fix myself.
I can't even fix my own screw-ups.
I have to let it all go, and I'm scared shitless.

## All In

Dear God, I'm all in. I'm scared. Please carry me.

At the start of the year, right after Marilyn's graduation,
I was so angry. At some point, I chose to dig-in and follow the Lord.
I knew that to go the other way would just make things worse.
But I don't know His plan. I just can't see that far nor that clearly.

So I let go of the anger. The results are good! There's a long way to go.

Last night I heard this one from TobyMac ... 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=caJDJYfKOR8

That's my song for the day.

2020-05-18 Monday


