# Sunset

This weekend, I made a quick trip up to Granger.
It was Carolyn's 80th birthday.

## Calm but Questioning

I've been trying to make better use of the time while driving.
On long drives, whether for work or for personal travel, I've been
listening to podcasts. But one of the techie talks has stopped
publishing and another has run out of current episodes. (I've simply
caught up completely with the latter.)

I also took the HF rig.
(A Kenwood brand ham radio, model TS-430S, which can run on 12 volt
car battery power.) Turned it on several times; heard stations
from far away, but couldn't identify just where.

The drive seemed to go by quickly.
Next thing I knew, I was arriving in Diane's and Scott's driveway.

I've been getting told, "you are not alone", and I know God is with me.

I found that I felt very depressed, though not angry.
That seems different. Good ... but ... why?

## A Gift

"There's a gift for you upstairs in your room."

Diane said that Kabby had brought me a book.
(Kabby is one of the guys from Scott's mens' group at GCC.)
"A Time to Grieve" by Haugk. Thoughtful of him.

I read a couple of chapters in the Haugk mini,
as well as a couple of chapters in the Vroegop book.
The latter makes some statements that I quite disagree with.
Other than that, I did not stay up too late because Diane had arranged
to take me as her guest to Orange Theory in the morning.

## Workout

I woke up early ... again.
Got up. Scott had made coffee.
Diane and I went to Orange Theory.

For those who don't know, Orange Theory is a gym, a national chain.
Their theory is that if you stay in a certain zone (the ORANGE zone
per their measurements) you'll continue to burn calories for most
of the day. Okay, cool. I didn't get there, this being my first time.
It was, however, a good workout, and it was well organized.
(I need structure. I need organization desperately.)

## Birthday

It was Carolyn's birthday.
Dad arranged for us to have lunch at Papa Vino's.
Scott and Diane and I went to the restaurant. Billie too.
Tim and Ann arrived. Then Bill and Carolyn arrived.
Todd had wrestling coaching duties. Jill was sick with the flu.
Chris and Stephanie would be coming, but would not make it for lunch.

We all presented birthday cards with gifts inside.
God put it in my head to get a gift card for Carolyn. I told Chelle and
Martin of my plan. I had called Tim. "What's your mom's favorite store?"
He said she really likes Kohl's lately. So let it be done!

Carolyn seemed to really enjoy it.

## Church

Since I had to leave early on Sunday, I asked Diane if we could
attend Saturday service at GCC. Scott was producing. We met two
unrelated friends of Scott and Diane, both ironically from Texas.
SO AWESOME to meet-up with other Texans! (They had been informed
about Marilyn's passing. Everyone's so gentle around me.)

Good sermon. Dr. Bob opened up about his own family.
A tough time recently for him and his siblings. They had a pow-wow.
"God heal this family." I can relate to that prayer, though for
very different reasons.

We went to Cre-Asian for dinner with Scott's and Diane's friends.
One of these two ... hard to believe ... so many people hurting.
His wife moved out three months ago. And this is where I hate being
an empath: I felt the man's pain.

For so many years I worried that Marilyn might get fed-up and leave.
I am so blessed that her leaving was far from voluntary. We had it good.

## Sleep, then Drive

So tired.

As seems to be part of my new normal,
I woke up at least four times during the night.
Each time thankful to see that I didn't have to get up yet.

Finally got up just before 7. Scott had made coffee.
He had to leave to produce the service. I talked with Diane
for more than an hour. Then I packed and left. Stopped by Dad's place
on the way out and saw him for a half hour.

The drive went by quickly.
My stops were practical.
The trip was lonely.

When I got to Thayer Road (a well-known marker for our family)
I called Martin and then called Chelle. They both had plans to see
the Superbowl with friends.

Superbowl ... I had forgotten.

I went directly to the church for the Grief Share group.
(Did not bother stopping at home first.) Called everyone
to let them know I was off the road. Went ahead and also signed-up
for the Cedarville GS group (starts tomorrow).

Then group. Not much to say about that.

## About that Sunset

Leaving the Grief Share group, there was a sunset.
It was about 6:15PN, so that means we're on the up-side.
The days are getting longer. We're moving AWAY from the dead of winter.

There's a loneliness to sunsets for me anyway. But I just watched it
for a minute. Tried to just take in the beauty. (This is not Texas,
but they ARE still beautiful ... and they mean we have no clouds.)

Watched the Super Bowl alone. Marilyn and I would typically catch the
commercials. I slept through most of it. She would have been glad to see
J Lo at half time, not so much Shakira. I slept through most of that too.

Danny sent email checking up on me.
"Was just about to blog."

The up-side:
NO fits of anger while driving. What does that mean?
Is it progress? Is it resignation?

There's a difference between "alone" and "lonely".

2020-02-02 Sunday


