# We Danced

A photo I picked up recently, a reprint from a set for sharing,
is of Marilyn and me dancing at Maggie's wedding last August.

That photo has kind of set the tone for today.

## In Love

In the picture, we're on the dance floor just gazing at each other.
She's looking up at me with pure joy. I'm holding her hand tightly
as I fumble my feet on the floor After 33 years we were very much
in love and happy just to be together.

I remember the dance. I remember her gaze.
Amazing that the photographer caught that moment.

## The Dance

I've been learning to appreciate what we had.
I've been trying to take my eyes *off* what I no longer have.

Some describe life as a dance.
It's a great analogy, especially in relationships,
especially in marriage. There are steps. You learn to move together.

Learning the dance takes time.

Time is intriguing. It ends.

## The Photo

I found myself getting very blue today.

God made us quite sophisticated. He designed us for community
and made us internally comprised of interconnected systems.
One thing can affect another thing. This is normal.

So I found myself getting very blue today
and it might be driven partly by a couple of things from work.
I've been surprisingly busy this week. Normally that would be all good.

But there's definitely a "missing Marilyn" factor to my blue mood.
I really miss her, some days more than others, today more than
yesterday.

## Stand Up

Trying to stand on my own two feet.
I said that to one of my friends who called Tuesday night.
I'm trying to get on my own feet so I won't be an unreasonable
burden on friends and family. The operative word there is
"unreasonable". I've been told that I should ask for help,
and I will, and I have.

Bluntly, it doesn't seem right to send email to some 30 people,
"I'm sad again. Can one of you cheer me up?".

There's also a lot to be joyful about. The last three or more posts
I've made to Facebook, several friends responded with "tears".
(Where they clicked "sad" in Facebook's interface; if you've seen it
then you know.) But I didn't mean those posts as sad. Not everything
is sad! Even in my long and painful journey, some things are happiness.

It's okay to ask for help, and I will.
I just don't want hollering for help to become a habit.

## What Next?

Three weeks ago, Tom at Grief Share asked "what next?".
When I heard that, it summed up my own questioning.

My life with Marilyn is over. That makes me sad. 
I promised "til death do us part". Didn't expect the D word
to hit quite so soon, certainly not in that particular way.
But I'm still sucking air, so evidently God has more for me to do.
And what exactly is that?

For the moment, I work online as best I can.
The boss has praised some of my work. On one of my visits to Virginia,
I attended a small cybersecurity conference. Then I also learned that
Cedarville University has a significant cybersecurity program.
For the near term, I've got a strong indication that I should be
doing something with cybersecurity.

I said at Grief Share that I don't handle endings well.
One of the Grief Share facilitators said that an ending might be
the begining of something new. So that's where I ask "what next?".
Sometimes God reveals a next phase and sometimes His answer is "wait",
which is not a favorite.

That "til death do us part" part was the committment when things were
rough. There's that "for better or worse". Life is hard. Marriage is
hard. Tell ya what, though: when you had a marriage like ours,
it's awfully lonely without your better half.

That picture didn't help.

But I love that picture. And I surely loved that moment.

2020-04-02 Thursday


