# Hair Cut

Today I got my hair cut.
Last haircut was probably November 30th.
Eight weeks is kinda long (so was my hair).

## Thumbs Up

I don't remember exactly what day it was,
but I needed a haircut so I went to Great Clips.
The kids were in town and were visiting Marilyn at the hospital
while I got this errand done.

This was the time of her first intubation.
She had been coming out of the delirium and was communicating.

"Dad got his hair cut."

She gave us thumbs up!

I didn't have any immediate customer visits.
This was just for her. I wanted to look nice for her.

## Do It Again

Time passes. Hair grows.
(Apologies to those men who have lost cranial hair.)
Today I again went to Great Clips.

The gal who took care of me was Hannah.
Told her that this was an occasion: first haircut since losing my wife.
I asked if she had lost loved ones. She recently lost her grandmother.
That loss led to life changes for her and her mom.

## Mom Liked It

Chelle and Martin and I chatted via phone txt today (Sunday).
I told them my plans, including the haircut.

"Momma always liked it when you got a haircut `:)` Hugs!"

## Other Losses

As painful as my own loss is, I know that some people have things worse.
Hannah shared that her uncle also died, but he and his widow were never
legally married. So now the widow is having to fight for some kind of
inheritance. Pro tip: get married, make it legal.

This afternoon was the first session of the local Grief Share group.
Wow.
Every story is different. Every journey is different.
The only common theme is pain.
But it helped to go. (Today was just introductory, but we *did* talk.)

Where will this journey go?

At church (this morning), Ronda Maynard saw me, came over, hugged me,
asked how I was taking things. (Something about how she worded it was
way better than the usual, "How are you doing?".)

"Taking it one day at a time."

She said something about ... days, hours, minutes.

"Yes, sometimes one *minute* at a time."

I'm thankful for the people who actually *knew* Marilyn.
Ronda and her kids interacted with Marilyn and our kids many times.
She and Derrick have always been dear to us.

## A Grief Observed

C. S. Lewis married late.
The story of his relationship with Joy Davidman is well documented
(if not well understood). She died from cancer after they'd been married
only four years. He wrote about the experience, about his own sorrow.
His book "A Grief Observed" was recommended to me by Jason Hortman.
I finally got through the first two chapters today.

It's not a long book. It's not even hard to read. (Though Lewis was one
of the most brilliant minds of the 20th century and could use words that
most of us don't even know if he so chose.) The "finally got through"
is because I only just today managed to make myself read it.

Diane read it.

"What? When did you read it."

"When Mom died."

Our mother died October 14th of 2015.
Diane pursued grief relief and read this book by Lewis at that time.

Haircuts ...

Lewis wrote (about shaving), "What does it matter now whether my cheek
is rough or smooth?".

Where will this journey lead?

2020-01-26 Sunday


