# Alone Around Town

Woke up early again.
Woke up to rain.

I wonder if some of the isolation and loneliness is my own fault.
But when reviewing my life with Marilyn, I don't see that.

Genesis 2:24, says it. Matthew 19:5 and Ephesians 5:31 repeat it.

I've told several people, "We got it right!" (Marilyn and I).
BE WARNED, getting it right doesn't mean you won't get HURT.

## Get Out of the House

Everyone recommends activity.
They tell me to keep busy. They tell me to get into a routine
and to plan/organize things to do. People! Please clue in to this:
I'm the UNSTRUCTURED one in the Rick+Marilyn combo. I'm trying.

So I was hoping to meet a friend for breakfast.
At the restaurant were a half dozen of my radio buddies.
(They meet every morning.) Sat with them for a few minutes.
Tim from church was there too.

Waited a few minutes and re-read Ephesians chapters 1, 2, 3,
per "homework" from the counselor.

My friend and I missed cues, so I left that restaurant for the next
venue on my rough agenda. I'm alone with nothing to do (that I actually
*want* to do).

Dear God, please provide.

Wished I could talk to somebody.
The only person I could think of to talk to was my sister.
But I did not call. At some point, I *must* stand on my own two feet.
I definitely need support now, gotta have the "mosh pit". But Geisler
said I should face the grief head-on. Specifically, he said,
"don't waste the experience".

The aloneness is really heavy at times.
Trying to make it THROUGH and not side-step the issue.

## Buckeye Parkway

The road from the Stringtown restaurants to the Starbucks that I
was going to is called Buckeye Parkway. Nice road. Better be:
we pay high local taxes in Grove City.

I drove down this road, a road that meant something when Marilyn first
told me its name, a dozen years ago. Pleasant. A main artery for the
East side of town. But blue due to memories.

I got to the Starbucks. Sat there alone. The "hang out at the
coffee shop" crowd would not arrive for a few hours, just me.
The place reminds me of Coffee Waves in Corpus Christi,
where I went for to do work early in 2019. Both Marilyn and Gene
were with us in those days.

Trying to make sense of sales issues and requirements.
Struggling to figure out what steps to take next to compete.

Connected to the home system.
I signed on with a password that reminded me, this machine was set-up
years ago when my kids were younger and four of us used the computers
I ran. This circles me back to questions about WHY I do what I do.

It was raining.

## Working from Home

Had to get back to the house for some online meetings.

On Thursday, I came across a tweet by a guy talking about the wonders
of "remote work". (That is, working from home.) WFH/remote has been
the ideal for a long time. I've often said it's more good than bad.
Until I lost Marilyn that was accurate. Not so sure about now.

https://twitter.com/vmcowboy/status/1220101684078239745

Trying again to make sense of sales issues and requirements.
Struggling again to figure out what steps to take next to compete.
When it's just a matter of talking with customers, I'm okay.
I'm comfortable explaining how the technology works.
I like telling the story.

Competing ... that's new for me. Another place I'm out of my zone.

It was raining. Rained most of the day.

## Back at Starbucks

The gal behind the counter read my face.

"Long Day?"

"Yep"

"We're here to put a smile on your face."

"I think you just did!"

I ordered a small mocha.

The rain had stopped as I arrived back at Starbucks.

A young couple came in.
Two months ago, I would have been happy for them.
Now I'm jealous and a little resentful.

## Prayer and Pizza

The Band of Brothers met at the church at 7PM for prayer and pizza.
I was a little late. Then Dave Wange called. Had to put him off.
SO MUCH appreciated the call. Hated to not talk right then and there.

Went inside, found the group, Jeff made a space for me.
Brian led us in review of I Timothy 2:1-4. Then we prayed.

Tim (who had been with the ham radio guys this morning) mentioned
his daughter Lisa. She needs a heart. She's on the list for a transplant.

Someone has to die.

I broke down. Somehow knowing that someone has to die
so that Lisa can live hit me hard at that moment.

Tom Matlock hugged me and prayed over me.
I had not seen him since that evening the men laid hands on me
as they prayed for Marilyn. (after the scan, before the biopsy)
Thank God for friends.

Rick Matlock was not there.
He's recouperating at home. Just had his gallbladder out.

gallbladder

## Something to Do

Tomorrow (Saturday) is the "Winter Field Day". The local ham club
is participating. They'll go to Deer Creek State Park. More memories:
Scouting, home schooling, even a time when Gene and Jo Ann parked their
RV there.

http://parks.ohiodnr.gov/deercreek

I should learn to golf.

In preparation for the field day event, I picked up some clips and wire
from the auto parts store. Need to connect a couple items directly to
the battery. (Avoiding some damage that the Toyota dealership had to
fix recently, for a hefty fee.) So I was up until about 1:30 AM.

Age of Ultron was on (Marvel Avengers franchise). I watched most of it.
After that came Phantom Menace (Star Wars franchise).

While working on the wires, I was content. First time I have been
in that particular frame of mind since Marilyn left us. But it faded.

Grief Share meets this weekend. FINALLY. I've been waiting for this
for at least a month. Will it help?

I have other things queued-up, plans. Hopefully it will help to stay busy.

2020-01-24 Friday


