# Raging Again

I thought I was free from the extreme anger.

I thought the RAGING emotion had passed.

Was going to call this "re-raging" because that's what's happening
but then thought "ambushed" was better.

## Calm Today

This morning I woke up to my regular alarm.
Blue ... very blue ... but calm.
Calm enough to write this.

Had to get out of the house.
Was out of coffee (beans on order) so I went to Starbucks.
Thought I'd get some work done, but then the work that I had to do
became electronic conferencing tedium: I had to run a meeting for one
of the reps because he would be on a plane. The upside was that it
was nice to have an assignment that was actually NECESSARY.

That call went well.

## Yesterday

Yesterday (Monday) was not as bad as the weekend.
Still difficult. Cycles of sadness, mounting memories, repeating rage.

This empty house is killing me.

As I struggle on the one hand for purpose and mission,
I value and adore the family plans that we had. In the main hall
are three pictures: us four with the Nerrens, us four in Costa Rica,
us four with the Troths and Bennetts. The first is the particularly
sentimental right now because JUST EIGHT MONTHS AGO it was complete.
But now, two of those in the portrait are gone.

The picture on the left was taken in the back yard at Reen Drive.
Marilyn and me and Chelle and Martin, Gene and Jo Ann, Mike and
Barbara, Matt and Toni. But two are gone.

The picture on the right was taken at Olan Mills.
Mom and Dad, Scott and Diane with Leslie and Billie,
Marilyn and me with Chelle and Martin. But two are gone.

I got busy with work for the day.
There was a training session. It was four hours long.
At least I can tell my management that I *did* something.

## Ambushed

One of the guys at Grief Share last night mentioned being ambushed.
You see something and it just sets you off.

The GS leader shared how, just sitting at the table paying bills,
she suddenly got the shakes and had to go lie down.

Today, going over papers for work. I needed a paper clip.
Went to the drawer where paper clips are kept and got one.
The magnetic paper clip holder reminded me of life with Marilyn.

Taking a walk. Some neighbor has metal butterflies on their mailbox.
Reminds me of the glass butterfly Marilyn put in our front garden.
Of course, then I get back to the house and there was that
glass butterfly.

So much unfinished: There's a walkway on the far side of the driveway.
We only ever got it half-way done. It was originally so that visitors
(my mom, for one) would not have to step into mushy ground or soft
grass when getting out of their car on the passenger side.

We don't get visitors anymore anyway.
Or I should say, *I* don't get visitors anymore anyway.

## Phil the Pastor

Phil is a pastor in Elkhart.
Steve is a counselor in Granger who attends Phil's church.
Diane arranged for me to meet with Steve when I was in Granger
over Christmas. It helped to talk with Steve, but he also
suggested that I talk with his pastor (Phil).
So Phil and I finally spoke on Saturday.

Like Dennis and Penelope, Phil and his wife have endured
unspeakable loss. Yet he was kind enough to take time out of
his weekend to talk with me.

He was helpful and encouraging.
One thing that he said that stuck with me is that God will give me
"a new platform" (or something like that, maybe mis-wording it now).
So ... like ... when is that going to happen?

Ambushed

One guy, while looking something up for a presentation, landed on a
web page with information that he DID NOT need to see. It set him off.
He was to speak to a group of people about forgiveness and saw
something unforgivable. I hurt for the man. But I get it.

## Weekend Weariness

My voice is hoarse from the screaming.
Several days ago, I noticed my ears ringing,
and I'm pretty sure it is from my own voice, so loud.

Saturday I drove down the R and L Electronics in Hamilton.
I bought an antenna tuner. That's all that remains of my life, it seems:
buying ham radio gear and tinkering with it, pointless effort.

Angry again Sunday morning until I called out verbally,
"Jesus, please help.", two or three times. 
 Then broke 
 down and cried, but at least wasn't raging anymore.

Friday I had gotten a rejection letter from a local conference.
I guess I won't be presenting there! Then Sunday, I got a rejection letter
from a sister conference in NOVA. Someone remind me again WHY I'M HERE.
Getting into the speaking circuit is (was?) a major objective for me
for this year. If I can't present, what the hell am I supposed to DO?

Diane called. I hung up several times but eventually took her call.
Miss Positivity tried to get me to focus on God's promises and that
He has a plan for me.
I refused. She tried to say that God will give me "a new platform"
(or something like that). But I don't WANT the new platform!
I want the life that I HAD BEFORE.

The rage took over. I didn't care! I SCREAMED AT THE PHONE.

Chris called. Hung up on him too, but wound up sending sms/txt
messages. Eventually I had to drive somewhere, so I called when I
was in the car. ("Don't text and drive!". Why not? Maybe I'll crash!)
He reminded me that God loves me (as he always does).
I enumerated my miseries, especially noting my failures:
as a parent, as a husband, as an employee, especially as a Christian,
that I'd just as soon chuck all that I've been given.

The rage took over again. I didn't care! I SCREAMED INTO THE PHONE.

Chris said that someone is whispering all of these negative thoughts in
 my ear.
"He wants to destroy you." At the time, I felt like helping the destroyer.
Chris is right. Spiritual war is real. Somebody tell me what's going on!

Ambushed?

I cannot quote the "I ams" from Ephesians 1, 2, and 3.
Instead, I wrote several of them on PostIt notes and stuck them
on the bathroom mirror. Had to do SOMETHING. Seeing them, hopefully
reading them, will have to suffice for the time being.

Until I get my eyes off of my situation and set them on Christ
I will remain stuck in this rut. I'm frustrated that it will STILL
take time to heal. I'm frustrated that whatever God wants me to do
remains hidden from me, and I'm sure He's holding back for a reason.

## 2015 All Over Again

The fits of anger that I experienced over the weekend, similar to
that of my trip to Virginia a couple weeks ago, is a lot like what
happened summer of 2015. In those days I still had a too-hot temper
and something triggered it.

Mom was starting to show signs from alzheimer's. Was that it?

Dad was arranging to move them into assisted living. Did that upset me?

Marilyn would not tolerate it. God bless her! She refused to coddle
my uncontrolled temper.

At some point, I realized that I had limited time with Mom and wanted
to make the best of it. Dunno how, but that got me calmed down.
I didn't have any angry fits after that. Not for months, years.

Until now.

## Cloudy Days

The section header "cloudy days" reminds me of a song by Jars of Clay.
Where did the music go? I haven't been able to listen ... sometimes
even before Marilyn got sick, but so much more now. I miss music.
It used to mean so much to me. It AFFECTS me. Why is that??

Cloudy skies over Central Ohio. That's the norm.
I'm popping 5000 units of vitamin D daily. Is the D even helping?

If you've never lost a spouse, you don't understand.

I miss Marilyn. I miss her SO MUCH.
This backlog of lost purpose is harder without her here.
She could analyze things. She even interpreted dreams.

If you've never worked in isolation, you don't get it.

I leave one of the ham radios on 24x7 just to occasionally hear
a human voice.

## Dinner at Plank's

So after Starbucks this morning, I ran that meeting. It went great!
Then was another four hour training session, but that was fine too.
Email. Followup. Not an unproductive work day.

This evening I had dinner with Scott's friend Tim (who comes to Grove
City on business most Tuesdays) and his friend Dave (who lives here).
We went to Plank's.

In 13 years living in Grove City, I've always wanted to go Plank's.
Chelle used to go there regularly for lunch with friends when she
worked at the library. I wanted to take Marilyn there.
Tonight I finally broke the ice. Plank's is great!
Gave it five stars on Google Maps.

So tonight I got to eat with friends. Thank You Lord.

Tim's great. He's been a good friend to Diane and Scott.
He has no reason to befriend me other than the coincidence that
he met me and comes here for the work he does. But he made a point
to find me and invite me to spend time when he comes to town.

Yesterday,
Tim shared a message with me from a friend of his daughter's
father-in-law. (Follow those degrees of separation for fun.) The man
lost his son probably six years ago. He now shares inspirational notes
with friends and family. Tim sent one that he thought I would appreciate.

"Throughout the seasons of life, we must all endure life-altering
personal loses ... When we do, many may be overwhelmed by fear, by doubt,
or by both. Thankfully, God has promised that he will never desert us.
And God keeps His promises!"

I told Tim and Dave, "That's where *I* want to be!".
And I'm not there yet.

## House of Memories

Back home after Plank's.
Memories, memories.
I cried instead of raging. I suppose that's progress.

2020-02-11 Tuesday


