# Full Day Back

Harder today than yesterday.
Still less than 30 hours since I've been back.

I turned on the lights of the little Christmas tree
that we got from Joanna and her dad Joe. Batteries ran down,
so I changed them. Now all bright again.

## Friends and Neighbors

Last night (Wednesday night)
I attended the new men's group Trent Soles is starting.
It was attended by Jeff (who co-leads) and by Steve
and Bill (both new to me). Bill asked some great questions.

Jeff left slightly early to pick up his kids.
The rest of us lingered longer than we should after the meering ended.
I think everyone just wanted to talk.

When I got back to the house, I texted Josh next door that I was home.
He brought over the mail and deliveries which had arrived while I was
away. We chatted for a few minutes. Then I dug into the stuff:
scheduled deliveries (which i will need to stop), MANY condolence cards,
found the replacement credit card, found the check from the insurance.

## Work and Errands

Time to get back to work, so this morning I got back to work.
(I got some work done before leaving Indiana too.) The big burden today
was my annual review. But my boss has been very supportive. He's also
very much a "coach", just trying to nudge everyone forward.

After catching up on email and another meeting, I left the house.
Went to the bank. Deposited that insurance check and got some cash.
Realized I needed gasoline, so got fuel. Bank is right by Kroger.
After getting gas, I went inside for milk and other perishables.

Kroger: health section

Marilyn usually had something from the health section on the list.
My short list today had none of that. I passed that section.
And now I miss Marilyn all over again. Managed to get through
with the shopping, though I was in a serious funk, almost delirious
trying to get to, and get through, the checkout.

## Familiar Footsteps

At some point, I walked. A goal is to be ready for a certain 5K walk/run
in the DC area this summer. This is a fund-raiser for pancreatic cancer.
Today, I went probably 2.5K, one of my usual routes.

Getting back to the house, at the front door, I thought I heard footsteps.
Marilyn would often hear me at the door and come unlock it for me.
But she wasn't there, of course. Footsteps must be my imagination.

After more work and related phone calls/meetings, I could not stand
being in the house any longer. Went to the library. Didn't get much done.

We gathered a lot of pictures for the memorials.
I had it in mind to set one of those as my laptop background.
Chose "the team". Not sure how long it will stay. It's a real joy
to see her and the kids, but also makes me miss her yet again.

2020-01-09 Thursday


