# Being Still

"Be still and know that I am God."

## Be Still

Psalm 46:10 is one of my favorite Bible verses.
Might even be my #1. It starts ...

"*Be still and know that I am God*"

I've heard that the Hebrew can be interpreted ...

"*Cease striving and know that I am God*"

 ... or with great emphasis ...

"*CEASE and know that I am God*"

For two or three months,
this has been my first prayer of the morning:
stillness, just waiting on the Lord.

## I Know, but Please Show

This morning, I knelt again.
But last night was difficult. I really did not sleep well.

"God, if you are God, please show me. I *am* being still."

That's a rhetorical "if" in case anyone is unclear about it.

Countless times I've cried out to the Lord, "please help",
and he has sent help. But I'm still in the tunnel.

I have no desire to stop looking to Him. Quite the opposite.
But I do long for the time (on this side of eternity) when the ride
won't be quite so rough, a point in the journey where there is peace.

I've been saying "please help" as part of my prayer time for years.
There's been a growing angst since before Marilyn got sick.
Losing her has served to amplify the call. What must I do?

And just like that, I have turned from being still to doing something.

Where is the clarity? How do I balance the being still
with an appropriate sense of urgency? God will be God,
and He has done everything, so He gets the glory.
He placed Adam in the garden to tend it, so there is an assignment.

## I Will Be Exalted

The second half of the verse reads ...

"*I will be exalted in the earth!*"

This is the reason for our being still. We need to trust Him, yes.
But we also need to exalt Him and to let Him be exalted.

So that's two things: exalt and let be exalted.
It's also my wording, not God's, but it seems to fit the whole of verse 10.

## Waiting

So we wait on the Lord,
all the more since we are in quarantine.

2020-04-15 Wednesday


