# The Drive

This is written after the fact.
(Written on Saturday about the drive to Virginia on Friday.)

It's a long drive from Grove City to either Fairfax or Reston.
I tried to queue-up some podcasts to make better use of the time.
In the end, I just used the Stitcher app on Android.

## Podcasts

I listened to two techie feeds:
Terminal Talk and Darknet Diaries.

I wanted to listen to one of the Christian feeds.
Breakpoint is great! But the titles in the list set me off:
"Remembering Jim Elliot and His Companions" and "I Still Believe".

I could not listen to these titles from Breakpoint.
They were probably meant to bless me, so I probably missed a blessing.

Jim Elliot is one of five Christian missionaries killed while trying
to contact a remote tribe in Ecuador. Their story is famous, renoun,
a legacy, beautiful. He is quoted ...

*He is no fool who gives what he cannot keep
to gain that which he cannot lose.*

(see Luke 9:24)

"I Still Believe" is a song by Jeremy Camp.
It was written in response to the death of his wife Melissa from
ovarian cancer. The song is the inspiration for a movie by the same
title, coming out in March of this year (2020).

It's a story of loss and hope.
I forced myself to listen to the song today on YouTube.

## The Rage

To be honest, I was enraged.
I didn't want to hear either of these podcasts because I want
the circumstance to change. I'd rather be pacified than healed.

And then as the Bluetooth toggled out and then back in,
it triggered the Android music player. The last song I *intentionally*
played was "Knees to the Earth" by Watermark. I had played that
for Marilyn while she was in ICU. I had wanted to tell her about it
when she woke up.

I just could not get away from where the Lord was directing my attention.

The song didn't even have to play on. I know the words too well:
"Beautiful Jesus, You are my only worth.
So let me embrace You always as I walk this earth."

## Books

Jason Hortman recommended "A Grief Observed" by C. S. Lewis.
I have started reading that.

Another book someone recommended is "Dark Clouds, Deep Mercy",
by Mark Vroegop. I read the foreword by Joni Eareckson Tada.
Her struggle is obviously harder than mine, but I can relate
to the desire to make it go away.

## God, Please Help

Dear God, please help.
Please have mercy on me, forgive my rage, heal the brokenness,
forgive my doubt. Give me a vision, a calling. I am so empty,
so alone, so blind to the future.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jim_Elliot

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeremy_Camp

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joni_Eareckson_Tada

http://markvroegop.com/about/

2020-01-17


