# Five Days

I've been back at the house in Ohio for five days.

How am I doing? (Everyone asks. I'm asking too!)

Today I read Psalm 13. The first verse is right where I'm at.
The alst verse is right where I want to be, where I THOUGHT I was,
until my plans were shattered 30 days ago.

## The Weekend

Yesterday (Sunday) seemed to go alright.
But this morning not so much. Actually, the whole weekend was difficult,
though yesterday I did see several friends face-to-face. I spoke with
Trent at church. Also saw Russ and Jim, two technical friends.
And I had dinner with Dennis. So it's up-and-down.

## Today

I had a good phone call with Chelle while she drove to work.

This morning, I had an appointment with my doctor.
Originally, I was going in for blood work, so I thought I should fast:
no breakfast (though I was hungry) and no coffee (which might have
messed up my mental schedule).

I turned on the TV to catch the weather.
Watching the morning news while drinking coffee and tea
had become a ritual for Marilyn and me. No coffee. No Marilyn.

Just before 9AM, I kinda started to freak out.

The regular weather guy, Buck, was not there.
The usual substitute, Phil, was not there.
Some new gal was doing today's weather.
Where's the usual weather guy?

change

Need help: I've been told that you can just show-up to Grief Share.
So I got on their web site and looked for other Grief Share groups
nearby. There's one in Cedarville tonight. I will go there if I
don't wind up having other plans.

Update: that group has not started. The leader is in the hospital.
Where the hell do I go?!?!?

Update: God provided Tim and his friends. (see below)

## Doctor's Office

Went to see my doctor.
Got a sore throat and related symptoms while in Indiana.
Mostly cleared up, but at the request of SEVERAL who said,
"get it checked out", I went to get it checked out.
(And have blood drawn as was previously planned.)

It's a new year, so the office had me review some things.
(Used to be done with paper. Now it's done on an iPad tablet.)

I had to change my emergency contact.

I had to change my marital status.

I had to change my "wellness profile" (the how-depressed-are-you stuff).

Told the nurse about my life change. She told the doctor.
He grilled me to be sure that I have plans to get help.
He could also recommend a psychologist if things don't work out
with counseling. And he likes the Grief Share ministry.

## Finally Breakfast

Got back home. Quickly made some eggs and coffee.

I accidentally tapped "Music" on my phone.
That brought up "Knees to the Earth" which I had played
for Marilyn when she was in the ICU. That memory doesn't help
my mental state!

Didn't actually eat breakfast until 11:25.

Chelle and Martin both recommended lavender oil as a
calming and "centering" aide. So I grabbed some lavender oil
from the kitchen cabinet. ALL of the essential oils are stuff that
Marilyn ordered! I can't escape the loss!

I think it's just really hitting me that SHE'S GONE.
Creaping up on me ... from last week ... and the weekend ... now today.

Walking ... I need to walk ... I need the exercise and I need
to get out of the house. Where are my sunglasses? Nearly panicked!
Could not find them! (Why are missing sunglasses stressing me out so 
bad??) Found them! Thank God! In the car, on the floor, had fallen.

I'm outta here to walk.

I don't know if I can stay in the house!
Where to go? Virginia is too far. Indiana is almost as far.
I am drowning!!!

## Structure is Solid Ground

Tim Allie (neighbor and friend of Bennetts) is in town every week
and invited me to watcn the NCAA game with him and friends. Great!
A plan. Something to DO.

I had an errand to run. Needed lightbulbs. That makes a trip to
Home Depot, then maybe swing by Panera (for WiFi) and read Tozer
before the game.

Also heard from Jim Stevanus about counseling. They have a spot for me.
Praise God! Help on the horizon, *and* it's another bit of planning.

Realizing about myself: I am a *highly* unstructured person.
I've sometimes been criticized for it. (By people who assume that
*anyone* can "get organized". That's just not true. It's not laziness
or a lack of discipline.) My wife was the structured one.

Turns out my dream job of working from home is hell. I need face time
with other people. I also need the framework of organization around me
and under me. Time I have had these other things, working from home
has been the dream and I have been VERY productive (more even than
if I did the usual office thing). But now I'm alone and my calendar
is sparse.

It would be so nice to see Marilyn coming down the stairs
in the morning. I miss her so badly.

2020-01-13 Monday


