# no rest

I can barely write today, but I have to write.

It almost feels like there's no air.

I know God is with me. I see His hand. But I feel SO ALONE.

## no sleep

Didn't sleep well AT ALL last night. Worst so far.
Got in bed, tried to sleep, but sleep fled from me.
Got up around midnight, phone message to/from Martin
(who just happened to also be up), then watched a movie.
Eventually did fall asleep.

Back in bed, woke to another fright.
Those two conference rejections really hurt.
I'm also not getting much customer interaction (non-conference).
Not being the rep, what can I do about it? I'm working SO HARD
on those things which I CAN do. But what's my purpose??

Needed to check the weather. Today is the first time I've watched
channel 28 since Marilyn left me. We used to watch it together
every morning.

## a task

Got up. Went to Chick-Fil-A. Got breakfast. Saw the graybeards.

Had to take the car to the dealer for service.
That was good in so far as giving me something to DO.
(And took the laptop and did some "work work" while waiting.)

While there, I visited with a friend. Call him Sam. (Not his real name.)
I've only known him since losing Marilyn. We have common friends on
a couple different fronts. But his life makes me sad: he's retired,
he's widowed, his family relations are all a stress mess.

The sadness and loneliness is almost overwhelming today.
Thankful that the guys are coming over tonight (mens' group).

## a friend

Last night I had dinner with Tim again. (Thank you, Tim,
for your time.) He showed me a photo of the group he and Judy
had over for Christmas. I miss that. I SO MUCH miss the gatherings
we used to have, mostly family, mostly MARILYN'S family.

The memories are almost unbearable.
Got my new eyeglasses. (That's a story.
I wish I had done this LAST YEAR when Marilyn was with me.)
Rounding the corner as I returned home, one of the neighbor houses
took me back to when we first moved here.

It doesn't help that my tasks at work are increasingly vague
and less frequent. Not getting specific engagements or assignments.
I'm working as hard as I can! Not only to stay busy but to be productive.

My world has gotten small. So small.

## other friends

A song comes on the radio. Reminds me of the concerts we used to go to.
Music seems to have left me.

I prayed for help:
Got a brief note from Chris.
Got email from Coach Rich.
Got a nice phone call from Paul.
Praise God! Thank you Lord.
But I am in agony.

The guys should be here soon.
Dennis called too, inquiring about the group.
(But he could not make it.)

Trent lingered after the meeting. Nice to chat with him. Thank God.

Dear God, please help!

2020-02-19 Wednesday


