sir.santa/2022/20221122.md, before:

# Sir Santa's Bag 2022

Sir Santa has some gifts for the community for 2022.

## Brewed with Chicory

Gneale is not fond of chicory.
He told me that his parents ingested it when he was a young-un
(I'm not sure the exact form) and the stuff was nasty. Fair enough.
MY experience with roasted chicory root is much more pleasant:
it's a popular additive to coffee. Call it the New Orleans blend.
Good stuff! I had my first coffee+chicory combo while working at
Shell Oil in New Orleans, the summer that I was introduced to VM/SP.

Chicory is a software packaging scheme which allows packages to be
added without involving the vendor/distributor package manager.
This is a *good* thing. Further, if the admin chooses,
Chicory can be used by individual non-admin users. In all cases,
Chicory allows more than one version of a package to be installed
simultaneously. And Chicory separates software residence from
software reference, so packages can reside locally, or on removable
media, or even on the network (NFS or shared drive), or even a DCSS.

## The Software Supply Chain and Security Thereof

There's a lot of rumbling and reaction, even hand-wringing,
over the software supply chain. This extends beyond just free and
open source. Chicory helps address supply chain concerns three ways:

* verifying cryptographic signature of sources
* rapid and agile response to requirements
* flexible residence of packages

Chicory does this without disrupting the vendor/distributor
supply chain. It also can be integrated with the provided package manager.
(Proven easy to do with RPM. Dunno about other package registries.)

Over the years, a body of pre-compiled packages has accrued.
For some environments (notably 31-bit mainframe Linux and 32-bit PC Linux)
there is enough in Chicory to jump-start a fully self-hosting system.

Chicory packages are not signed, but the Chicory collection includes
source signing PGP keys for those packages which are signed by their authors.
It's all about trust.

## Static versus Dynamic linkage

Programs can be linked statically or dynamically.
Where possible, Sir Santa links command executables statically
in hopes of minimizing dependency hell. In all cases, we try and build
on the oldest viable systems so that the resulting deliverables
will work on newer systems with forward compatibility.

## Sir Santa's Bag

They named me Sir Santa. It was a great honor.

In embracing the title, I have occasionally made "gifts" available
around Christmastime. (Not consistently; life happens.)
We're doing that again this year.

There are a handful of Chicory-brewed packages which might be of interest
to the z/Linux and z/VM community. Those are explicitly in the bag.

## Current Packages in the 2022 bag

Packages found to be ready include ...

* Python 2
* RSYNC
* GnuPG*
* Regina Rexx
* The Hessling Editor (THE)
* OORexx
* GnuCOBOL
* Musl Libc
* OpenSSH*

Of these, all but THE and Regina have PGP-signed sources.
The build logic can check the signatures. (Does not automatically
because it would be a hard stop if you don't have the public key
in your keyring.)

Most of the above are available at ...

    rsync://chic.casita.net/opt/

Some of these* are considered contraband or might raise an eyebrow.
The full collection is available via the Onion site ... 

    rsync://a2po4n3vnx3vbbsmb75h2iaevgf3lp6tfcbnap7vs645g2z7xovmg6yd.onion/opt/

If you can reach Onion sites, then you already possess software
for which any export restrictions might apply.

## Currently Platforms in the 2022 bag

Most of the packages in the bag are built for ...

* Linux-i386 (32-bit PC Linux, which indicates Linux-i486, Linux-i586, and Linux-i686 as well)
* Linux-x86_64 (64-bit PC Linux)
* Linux-s390 (31-bit addressing, 32-bit Linux for Z)
* Linux-s390x (64-bit Linux for Z)
* Linux-arm (32-bit ARM, Raspberry Pi)
* FreeBSD-amd64 (64-bit PC)

64-bit ARM Linux (Linux-aarch64) is not included
because we don't have consistent access to that hardware.

32-bit FreeBSD (FreeBSD-i386) is not included due simply to time constraints.

Some packages are not available for all of the above platforms.

## Python 2

The Python world has undergone a seismic shift going from Python 2
to Python 3. Everyone is advised to upgrade their Python scripts
so that they work with the new language level.

As these things go, some scripts will lag behind. But you might be
on a system for which Python 2 is no longer available. In that case,
you can try the Chicory build of Python 2.7.18, the last release
of Python 2.

## Python 3

Since Python 2 is in Santa's bag, it occurred that maybe Python 3
should also be included. But Python 3 is widely available, so even though
Python 3 has been built for Chicory many times, it's not specifically
in Sir Santa's Bag for 2022.

## RSYNC

If you know RSYNC, then you don't need an introduction.
For the rest, how do we describe RSYNC? It's a file copying tool.
It's a content handler. It's a backup utility.

RSYNC is a big deal for Chicory. (And for Sir Santa personally.)
It serves as the main transport for the few package management scripts
built around Chicory. (Other residence and transport options are
part of the Chicory story, but not well scripted.)

There was a change in RSYNC when it hit the 3.2.4 release.
Best I can tell, this was to fight man-in-the-middle attacks.
(In response to the supply chain saga? It's been said that the biggest
cause of problems is solutions.) But the changet had the unintended
consequence of breaking some legitimate modes of operation.
RSYNC 3.2.3 doesn't have the "fix" and is available via Chicory.

RSYNC 3.2.3 is linked statically.

## GnuPG

Gnu Privacy Guard (GnuPG, or just GPG) is the Gnu implementation of PGP.
The 1.x line has reached end-of-life. All development now is being done
on the 2.x line. But GPG 2.x is built upon a half dozen other packages.
This is a good development philosophy but leads to ... drum roll ...
*dependencies*.

GPG 1.4.23 is the last of the GPG 1.x line and is available via Chicory.
You can use it for reference, to assure correct operation of GPG 2.
You can also use it if you're paranoid and for some reason don't trust
"new stuff". You can use it if you don't want to install the supporting
packages needed for GPG 2.

GPG 1.4.23 is linked statically to avoid runtime dependencies.

## Regina Rexx

Regina is the Rexx implementation from Mark Hessling.
I have found it to be easy to integrate/interface (i.e., call native
functions from Rexx). It's also the preferred Rexx for the Hessling
Editor (THE), which uses Rexx as its scripting/macro language.

The current release of Regina Rexx is 3.9.5.

Regina Rexx `regina` is linked dynamically because it has to load modules at runtime.
There is also a `rexx` command executable which is linked statically where possible.

## The Hessling Editor

The Hessling Editor (THE) is an XEDIT workalike.
If you know XEDIT, then you need no introduction.
THE works similarly to `KEDIT` and Amdahl's `ned` and can be
made to emulate CMS `XEDIT` very closely. THE uses Rexx as its
macro scripting language. Naturally, Regina Rexx is the best fit.

If you prefer ISPF, I can't help you. (And you *do* need help.)

The current release of THE is 3.3.

## OORexx

Object Oriented Rexx (OORexx) is included because many in
the z/VM community are fans. I do not use OORexx personally at all.
(Because Regina has been sufficient, plus I already know it.)

The latest release of OORexx (that I could find) is 5.0.0.
The latest *stable* release (that I could find) is 4.2.0.
4.2.0 is the one included in Santa's bag for 2022.

## Gnu COBOL

Many in the z/VM and (especially) z/OS world encounter COBOL.
Some even *like* it. Once you've got two or three languages under your belt,
you may find that the biggest issue is, "can we compile it here?", for any
given platform. Gnu COBOL is one of several compilers available,
and it's free, and it's available via Chicory.

The latest relese of Gnu COBOL is 3.1.2.

Gnu COBOL 3.1.2 is linked dynamically in most cases because of build requirements.

## Musl Libc

Musl Libc is an alternative runtime library for Linux systems.
It is easily seen as an alternative to GLIBC and is *significantly*
lighter then GLIBC. You can link (statically) against Musl Libc
to produce executables which run on systems which do not have it
installed, per se.

Musl Libc is not available for 31-bit Linux for Z systems.
Musl Libc is not available for FreeBSD.

The Musl Libc build in Santa's 2022 bag contains the headers (include
files), static library, and a script to wrap `gcc` so that one can
compile and link executables with it.

## OpenSSH

OpenSSH is the implementation of SecureShell (SSH) included with
most Linux distributions and similar environments like CYGWIN.
If you're familiar with PuTTY, OpenSSH is very different.
The most visible difference is that OpenSSH does not include
terminal emulation. It runs from the command shell in whatever
terminal emulator you're already running.

There was a change as of OpenSSH 9.0 which enables (now) reliable
file transfer (using `scp`, part of the OpenSSH package) in either
binary or text mode. Previously, it was difficult or impossible
I made a point to build OpenSSH 9.0 as broadly as possible.

This new capability is *huge* for those using `scp` to copy files
to/from USS, but we won't discuss the details in this post.

The latest release of OpenSSH is 9.1.

## Other Packages

The following packages fell out of scope due to time limits.

* cURL
* wget
* tar
* gzip
* bzip2
* xz
* lzip
* LibreSSL*
* OpenSSL*
* tor*

Most of these are not in this year's bag due to lack of time.
SSL and Tor would be more of that contraband, so they're only available
via the Onion link mentioned above. (If you're already on that network
then you definitely already have those wares.)

## LibreSSL

LibreSSL began as a fork of OpenSSL taken on by the OpenBSD developers.
It was launched in reaction to the Heartbleed vulnerability of 2014.
For some applications, LibreSSL is a drop-in replacement for OpenSSL,
but with more aggressive code quality. For other applications,
LibreSSL cannot directly replace OpenSSL.

## OpenSSL

OpenSSL is the standard for SSL/TLS in "open systems".
If you know it, then you need no introduction. If you don't know it,
then sadly introduction is beyond the scope of this post.

## tor

Tor is an anonymity network based on the global internet.
Some love it. Some hate it. Some use it as a tool for a variety of
purposes, both good and bad. Here's hoping that having Tor available
from Chicory downloads does not get us blacklisted.

Many "good guys" block Tor to prevent bad guys doing bad things.
Many "bad guys" block Tor to prevent good guys doing good things.

2022-11-22 Tuesday and following

Commit message:

updated SSH section with SCP details from Rich Way

sir.santa/2022/20221122.md, after:

# Sir Santa's Bag 2022

Sir Santa has some gifts for the community for 2022.

## Brewed with Chicory

Gneale is not fond of chicory.
He told me that his parents ingested it when he was a young-un
(I'm not sure the exact form) and the stuff was nasty. Fair enough.
MY experience with roasted chicory root is much more pleasant:
it's a popular additive to coffee. Call it the New Orleans blend.
Good stuff! I had my first coffee+chicory combo while working at
Shell Oil in New Orleans, the summer that I was introduced to VM/SP.

Chicory is a software packaging scheme which allows packages to be
added without involving the vendor/distributor package manager.
This is a *good* thing. Further, if the admin chooses,
Chicory can be used by individual non-admin users. In all cases,
Chicory allows more than one version of a package to be installed
simultaneously. And Chicory separates software residence from
software reference, so packages can reside locally, or on removable
media, or even on the network (NFS or shared drive), or even a DCSS.

## The Software Supply Chain and Security Thereof

There's a lot of rumbling and reaction, even hand-wringing,
over the software supply chain. This extends beyond just free and
open source. Chicory helps address supply chain concerns three ways:

* verifying cryptographic signature of sources
* rapid and agile response to requirements
* flexible residence of packages

Chicory does this without disrupting the vendor/distributor
supply chain. It also can be integrated with the provided package manager.
(Proven easy to do with RPM. Dunno about other package registries.)

Over the years, a body of pre-compiled packages has accrued.
For some environments (notably 31-bit mainframe Linux and 32-bit PC Linux)
there is enough in Chicory to jump-start a fully self-hosting system.

Chicory packages are not signed, but the Chicory collection includes
source signing PGP keys for those packages which are signed by their authors.
It's all about trust.

## Static versus Dynamic linkage

Programs can be linked statically or dynamically.
Where possible, Sir Santa links command executables statically
in hopes of minimizing dependency hell. In all cases, we try and build
on the oldest viable systems so that the resulting deliverables
will work on newer systems with forward compatibility.

## Sir Santa's Bag

They named me Sir Santa. It was a great honor.

In embracing the title, I have occasionally made "gifts" available
around Christmastime. (Not consistently; life happens.)
We're doing that again this year.

There are a handful of Chicory-brewed packages which might be of interest
to the z/Linux and z/VM community. Those are explicitly in the bag.

## Current Packages in the 2022 bag

Packages found to be ready include ...

* Python 2
* RSYNC
* GnuPG*
* Regina Rexx
* The Hessling Editor (THE)
* OORexx
* GnuCOBOL
* Musl Libc
* OpenSSH*

Of these, all but THE and Regina have PGP-signed sources.
The build logic can check the signatures. (Does not automatically
because it would be a hard stop if you don't have the public key
in your keyring.)

Most of the above are available at ...

    rsync://chic.casita.net/opt/

Some of these* are considered contraband or might raise an eyebrow.
The full collection is available via the Onion site ... 

    rsync://a2po4n3vnx3vbbsmb75h2iaevgf3lp6tfcbnap7vs645g2z7xovmg6yd.onion/opt/

If you can reach Onion sites, then you already possess software
for which any export restrictions might apply.

## Currently Platforms in the 2022 bag

Most of the packages in the bag are built for ...

* Linux-i386 (32-bit PC Linux, which indicates Linux-i486, Linux-i586, and Linux-i686 as well)
* Linux-x86_64 (64-bit PC Linux)
* Linux-s390 (31-bit addressing, 32-bit Linux for Z)
* Linux-s390x (64-bit Linux for Z)
* Linux-arm (32-bit ARM, Raspberry Pi)
* FreeBSD-amd64 (64-bit PC)

64-bit ARM Linux (Linux-aarch64) is not included
because we don't have consistent access to that hardware.

32-bit FreeBSD (FreeBSD-i386) is not included due simply to time constraints.

Some packages are not available for all of the above platforms.

## Python 2

The Python world has undergone a seismic shift going from Python 2
to Python 3. Everyone is advised to upgrade their Python scripts
so that they work with the new language level.

As these things go, some scripts will lag behind. But you might be
on a system for which Python 2 is no longer available. In that case,
you can try the Chicory build of Python 2.7.18, the last release
of Python 2.

## Python 3

Since Python 2 is in Santa's bag, it occurred that maybe Python 3
should also be included. But Python 3 is widely available, so even though
Python 3 has been built for Chicory many times, it's not specifically
in Sir Santa's Bag for 2022.

## RSYNC

If you know RSYNC, then you don't need an introduction.
For the rest, how do we describe RSYNC? It's a file copying tool.
It's a content handler. It's a backup utility.

RSYNC is a big deal for Chicory. (And for Sir Santa personally.)
It serves as the main transport for the few package management scripts
built around Chicory. (Other residence and transport options are
part of the Chicory story, but not well scripted.)

There was a change in RSYNC when it hit the 3.2.4 release.
Best I can tell, this was to fight man-in-the-middle attacks.
(In response to the supply chain saga? It's been said that the biggest
cause of problems is solutions.) But the changet had the unintended
consequence of breaking some legitimate modes of operation.
RSYNC 3.2.3 doesn't have the "fix" and is available via Chicory.

RSYNC 3.2.3 is linked statically.

## GnuPG

Gnu Privacy Guard (GnuPG, or just GPG) is the Gnu implementation of PGP.
The 1.x line has reached end-of-life. All development now is being done
on the 2.x line. But GPG 2.x is built upon a half dozen other packages.
This is a good development philosophy but leads to ... drum roll ...
*dependencies*.

GPG 1.4.23 is the last of the GPG 1.x line and is available via Chicory.
You can use it for reference, to assure correct operation of GPG 2.
You can also use it if you're paranoid and for some reason don't trust
"new stuff". You can use it if you don't want to install the supporting
packages needed for GPG 2.

GPG 1.4.23 is linked statically to avoid runtime dependencies.

## Regina Rexx

Regina is the Rexx implementation from Mark Hessling.
I have found it to be easy to integrate/interface (i.e., call native
functions from Rexx). It's also the preferred Rexx for the Hessling
Editor (THE), which uses Rexx as its scripting/macro language.

The current release of Regina Rexx is 3.9.5.

Regina Rexx `regina` is linked dynamically because it has to load modules at runtime.
There is also a `rexx` command executable which is linked statically where possible.

## The Hessling Editor

The Hessling Editor (THE) is an XEDIT workalike.
If you know XEDIT, then you need no introduction.
THE works similarly to `KEDIT` and Amdahl's `ned` and can be
made to emulate CMS `XEDIT` very closely. THE uses Rexx as its
macro scripting language. Naturally, Regina Rexx is the best fit.

If you prefer ISPF, I can't help you. (And you *do* need help.)

The current release of THE is 3.3.

## OORexx

Object Oriented Rexx (OORexx) is included because many in
the z/VM community are fans. I do not use OORexx personally at all.
(Because Regina has been sufficient, plus I already know it.)

The latest release of OORexx (that I could find) is 5.0.0.
The latest *stable* release (that I could find) is 4.2.0.
4.2.0 is the one included in Santa's bag for 2022.

## Gnu COBOL

Many in the z/VM and (especially) z/OS world encounter COBOL.
Some even *like* it. Once you've got two or three languages under your belt,
you may find that the biggest issue is, "can we compile it here?", for any
given platform. Gnu COBOL is one of several compilers available,
and it's free, and it's available via Chicory.

The latest relese of Gnu COBOL is 3.1.2.

Gnu COBOL 3.1.2 is linked dynamically in most cases because of build requirements.

## Musl Libc

Musl Libc is an alternative runtime library for Linux systems.
It is easily seen as an alternative to GLIBC and is *significantly*
lighter then GLIBC. You can link (statically) against Musl Libc
to produce executables which run on systems which do not have it
installed, per se.

Musl Libc is not available for 31-bit Linux for Z systems.
Musl Libc is not available for FreeBSD.

The Musl Libc build in Santa's 2022 bag contains the headers (include
files), static library, and a script to wrap `gcc` so that one can
compile and link executables with it.

## OpenSSH

OpenSSH is the implementation of SecureShell (SSH) included with
most Linux distributions and similar environments like CYGWIN.
If you're familiar with PuTTY, OpenSSH is very different.
The most visible difference is that OpenSSH does not include
terminal emulation. It runs from the command shell in whatever
terminal emulator you're already running.

There was a change as of OpenSSH 9.0 which enables (now) reliable file
transfer (using `scp`, part of the OpenSSH package) in either binary or
text mode. Previously, it was difficult (really impossible) to send binary
files to or from z/OS (USS). The `scp` partner program on the server side
would always translate between ASCII and EBCDIC. So this new capability
is *huge* for those using `scp` to share files with USS.

The new option is "`-O`" for "old behavior". The old behavior does the
EBCDIC/ASCII translation and the newer protocol doesn't. Note that "`-O`"
is only supported on OpenSSH 9.0 and newer. On earlier releases it results
in a syntax error.

I made a point to build OpenSSH 9.0 as broadly as possible when it came out.
The latest release of OpenSSH is 9.1, and that's what's included
in Sir Santa's bag this year.

## Other Packages

The following packages fell out of scope due to time limits.

* cURL
* wget
* tar
* gzip
* bzip2
* xz
* lzip
* LibreSSL*
* OpenSSL*
* tor*

Most of these are not in this year's bag due to lack of time.
SSL and Tor would be more of that contraband, so they're only available
via the Onion link mentioned above. (If you're already on that network
then you definitely already have those wares.)

## LibreSSL

LibreSSL began as a fork of OpenSSL taken on by the OpenBSD developers.
It was launched in reaction to the Heartbleed vulnerability of 2014.
For some applications, LibreSSL is a drop-in replacement for OpenSSL,
but with more aggressive code quality. For other applications,
LibreSSL cannot directly replace OpenSSL.

## OpenSSL

OpenSSL is the standard for SSL/TLS in "open systems".
If you know it, then you need no introduction. If you don't know it,
then sadly introduction is beyond the scope of this post.

## tor

Tor is an anonymity network based on the global internet.
Some love it. Some hate it. Some use it as a tool for a variety of
purposes, both good and bad. Here's hoping that having Tor available
from Chicory downloads does not get us blacklisted.

Many "good guys" block Tor to prevent bad guys doing bad things.
Many "bad guys" block Tor to prevent good guys doing good things.

2022-11-22 Tuesday and following
