# The Truth about Electric Cars

Someone I follow on Twitter goes by the name Peter Sweden, real name
Peter Imanuelsen. Let's avoid the whole discourse about how Twitter
is a flawed platform. (But see "hype" below.) This guy's great!
He's a journalist who talks about issues from "the other side of the pond"
(from me). It's good to get a European perspective from someone who
actually lives there.

Sometimes what Peter posts is saddening. But he posted something
yesterday that surprised me. It was also disappointing: not just
that I disagree, but because it's a fact-lack perspective,
which I'm not accustomed to reading from him.

*Electric vehicles will never be real cars. <br/>
 A real car with a real engine has a mechanical feel to it.
 You can hear the engine roar and feel the machine working. <br/>
 It is a piece of art. <br/>
 An electric vehicle is just a monotone robot.*

Peter's a regular in calling down "environmentalists" for their own
fact-lack. I wonder if his post is just knee-jerk against over-played
promotion of electric drive. And with that, I would agree.
Peter? What say ye?

Anyway, his statement is annoying and not based on facts.
It's based on feelings (both physical and emotional).

## Feelings are Valid

A major life lesson for me is that feelings matter.
The common wisdom is that we should not make decisions based on feelings,
and that's correct. But to ignore feelings is counter productive.

Peter likes the feel of a gasoline car. Good!
I submit to you that another feel of a great car is acceleration.
While there's no rumble, EVs have acceleration out the wazoo.

Also, I think Peter's real objection is to unbalanced reporting
of the advantages of electric cars. With that, I completely agree.

But he said that a electric cars are not "real cars", and that's where
I take issue. What's a real car? Beyond that, where did *cars* come from
in the first place? (Not going there, but you see it's a rabbit trail.)

## The Problems with Electric Drive

I'm a fan of electric drive, but I've seen a lot of headlines lately
that read something like, "the hidden problems with electric vehicles".
These stories go on to tell the unitiated about the supposedly lesser
known drawbacks to using electric locomotion. Some of them are pure
click-bait to draw your eyes to their advertising. There's nothing
in them that e-drive aficionados haven't already heard many times.

People, we live in a fallen world. Nothing's perfect.

Also, I have friends and family who make their living from,
or are heavily affected by, the petroleum industry. Being pro-electric
is not the same as being (cough, cough, California) anti-petroleum.
The single biggest "problem" with the rise of electric cars is the
adverse effect it has on the livelihood of oil workers.

Let me go on record as saying that California's up-coming ban
on gasoline powered cars is a Bad Idea. In a similar vein, I'm also
a big fan of LED lighting, but the ban on incandescent bulbs is
just plain stupid: it assumes that the public are stupid en toto
and don't know when they should choose LED versus CFL versus filament.

## Counter the Hype

I hate hype.

Like many (most?) new technologies, electric drive has been
promoted *hard* by its proponents, especially by those who have
invested (either business or personal effort or by purchase)
in electric vehicles. I get it! I'm there too. The tech is cool
and has many advantages over traditional (internal combustion)
automotive propulsion.

So ... I'm a huge fan of electric and hybrid cars, but they do not
present us with a silver bullet. Yes, e-drive is better than internal
combustion. On balance, that does not mean it's not the right solution
to every transportation problem.

## Just the Facts

Here are some advantages of electric drive:

* cooler in the summer
* no need for warm-up in the winter
* immediate full torque at zero revs
* quieter
* cleaner (literally *zero* tailpipe emissions)
* smoother (electric drive does not require shifting)
* more efficient (flatter performance curve)
* flexible fueling (because any fuel can be turned into electricity)
* more reliable (consider an engine with *one* moving part)

Any one of these would be a strong selling point.
They're all true.

Here are some disadvantages of electric drive:

* range anxiety
* conversion loss

Also, it's easy to hide the remote sources of electric generation.
I was talking just last week with my colleague Luther who observed,
"So you really burn coal.", and I conceded. Whether coal, hydro-electric,
wind, solar, nuclear, natural gas, or other, the power company
has to use something other than electricity to generate electricty.

But this is actually one of the *advantages* of e-drive: flexible fueling.
As a consumer, you can't directly control where the electricity comes from,
but it *does* vary. As an individual, you also have some control over
what electrical sources you use.

Some people talk about the requirements for rare earth elements in
manufacturing electric cars. But that's increasingly true for *all* cars
and for other tech sectors.

Some people talk about how an electric car can be remotely disabled
by the connectedness of its on-board electronics. That too is true now
for all cars coming off the assembly lines. GM introduced OnStar around
2000 and the joint subsidiary existed as far back as 1996. It's not new
and the technology is *not* related to the drive train your car has.

## To Grandmother's House We Go

The problem most *consumers* have with electric cars is range anxiety.
The energy density of petroleum power is much higher than current
battery technology. That's a fact. It's not so much a problem if you
do a wee bit of planning. Also, jokes about running out of gasoline
abound and yet we don't make a big deal about range anxiety there.

For short trips, there is no argument. Electric is flat out better.
Hopping into the gas guzzler for the
quick trip to the convenience store is incredily wasteful for an
ordinary car. It also ages the vehicle (warm-up, cool-down).
Not so for electric.

If Grandmother lives five states away, whether gas (or diesel)
or electric, you will need to refuel. Let's hope that you don't take
US 50 through Nevada and Utah or similar routes including some in
far West Texas.

Recently, I saw two of my cousins, a father and son, at family gathering.
They had each driven their Tesla from Atlanta to New Orleans.
That's a trip between 450 and 500 miles, beyond the range of even
the Tesla. (It's also beyond the range of most gasoline cars,
though of course refilling the tank with liquid fuel is quicker.)
I don't know how, when, or where they recharged.
I DO know that they were both delighted with their experience.

## Cost and Control of Conversion

There's a whole other rationale for using electricity for motion.
It gives the operator much finer control.

Years ago, I visited my friend Tony at his apartment.
We were both freshmen in electrical engineering.
He lived across the tracks, yet close to them, and that evening
there was some clinking and clattering. I was curious, what the heck?

Tony: "They're tightening the coupling before they roll."

ah! okay

then he said: "You know that thing's electric?"

me: "No! Why take the conversion loss?"
(going from diesel mechanical to electrical and then back to mechanical)

Tony: "Would YOU wanna pop that clutch?"

Point taken!

It was still another 20 years before I understood that
electricity could power street vehicles. I thought electric "cars"
were limited to golf carts. But that's a whole other story.

There's a cost in the conversion, but the advantage is that you get
substantially better *control* over the vehicle ... any vehicle: freight
locomotive, public transit (both bus and rail), even ships at sea.
You might think that lovely floating hotel you enjoyed on your cruise was
pushed by a pair of propellers at the ends of poles, but you'd be wrong.
Most large ships (for passengers or packages) are propeled by electric
motors which not only can be throttled up or down more precisely
but also can be turned in different directions in a pinch.

These are industries without idealism.
It's all about what works best in the big picture.

## "a mechanical feel to it"

I don't ride much these days, but once truly enjoyed motorcycling.
The bike I learned on was a 1972 Honda 350 Four, little brother to the
industry-changing CB750. And yeah, we're talking about gasoline power.
But I like it smooth. Four cylinders make it smooth. Ahhhhh.....

Though I love buying American and I respect the legacy of Bill Harley
and the Davidson brothers, that well-known rough ride has no appeal.
The story goes (I state without proof or attribution) that the rough
ride is because of a design compromise made decades ago, no longer
needed, and that HD eventually offered a smoother engine.
But the fans would not have it. [sigh]

Makes me sad, but there's no accounting for taste.
(But let's call it what it is: preference, not practicality.)

Peter --
If you want a "mechanical feel", get yourself a Harley-Davidson.
You can hear the engine roar and feel the machine working.
It is a piece of art.

## semi-random references

Peter's Twitter profile

https://twitter.com/PeterSweden7

His post which triggered me

https://twitter.com/PeterSweden7/status/1566785585339109376

A US government page discussing electric vehicles
(TEN years old as of this writing)

https://www.energy.gov/articles/top-10-things-you-didn-t-know-about-electric-vehicles

Top 16 Longest Gaps between Interstate Exits

http://content.usatoday.com/communities/driveon/post/2011/08/longest-distances-between-exits-on-US-freeways-415029/1

-- R; &lt;&gt;&lt;

2022-09-06 Tuesday


