# SYSLOG - the Seemly SIEM

SIEM, SIEM, everywhere a SIEM.
It provides the heartbeat of our SOC.
We gather events and related traffic from every device on our network.
We feed the content to everything from ML and AI to human eyeballs.

Wouldn't it be nice if there was a standard SIEM function or service
with a clean and consistent interface available across all platforms?

There is.

## Go Downstack

All the cool kids are coding "upstack" these days. That's understandable.
Applications are where the users live. Applications are where features
reign supreme. The systems upon with the apps ride are just infrastructure.

To the application coders, stay upstack. But be aware of what's downstack.
Don't ignore the foundation you're standing on. It's important, even if
it's not (and should not be) your primary focus. There are things down
there which can help you. There are wheels in the lower levels that you
don't have to re-invent.

## Event Logging

All contemporary systems have an event logging service.
The two most significant services are the Windows Event Logger
and Unix SYSLOG service.

I can't speak about the Windows Event Logger other than to say
it looks really sophisticated. (I mean that in a good way.)
By contrast, Unix SYSLOG service is incredibly simple,
though eminently extensible.

## SYSLOG

On Unix systems, any systems which conform to the POSIX standard,
including Linux and MacOS, there is a standard event logger:
`syslog()`. It's well understood by Unix/Linux professionals.
It's robust, with years of experience across many implementations.

The service classifies traffic according to a *severity* (ranging from
debug to panic) and a *facility* (with some pre-defined and others
left for custom definition. The traffic itself is mostly unstructured.
(but see "CEF" below)

A standard SYSLOG record includes
the date and time, the hostname of the source, usually the name
of the responsible process, optionally also it's process ID or number,
and free-form text. The severity and facility are removed, having been
used for routing and disposition of the message. (Some SYSLOG aggregators
retain the severity and facility in the recorded traffic. That's good!)

In this post, I use "SYSLOG" (the service) and "`syslog()`"
(the function) interchangeably. Please the fast-and-loose wording.

## Unreliable as in UDP

SYSLOG is a local service on Unix.
But SYSLOG traffic can be forwarded to a remote logging host.
This is far and away the norm.

Originally, networked SYSLOG traffic was carried via UDP.
UDP is ideal for this purpose: it's fast, presents a light load
on the network stack, effects a self-throttling aspect to SYSLOG,
does not flood the network with retransmissions, and does not require
the added work (both machine and human) of PKI and cryptography.

UDP has the unfortunate name "unreliable datagram protocol".
(It's official name is "*user* datagram protocol, but ya can't shake
the label ya got on the streets.) It's true: UDP does not guarantee
delivery. No surprise then that executives might want absolute
assurance that all events get recorded. (This goes directly against
anything like "self throttling".) So SYSLOG can optionally now
be carried ovar TCP, even TLS (SSL).

Even in a UDP configuration, logs are not lost:
Each sending source can, and usually does, keep a copy of its own traffic.
This is commonly done, if not well understood by executive management.

## Common Event Format (CEF)

SYSLOG is almost entirely plain text.
You can "log" anything you like. That leaves the door wide open
for stuffing various eye catchers, searchable tokens, or structure.
The consistency of IBM "messages and codes", always undervalued
by the competition, fits nicely here.

It's easy, even trivial, to convey structured information in an
unstructured medium. One way is to include variable=value pairs
in the feed. I recommend anything which can later be processed
by a shell script. But there are a number of recognized extensions
to SYSLOG, one being CEF, the Common Event Format.

CEF provides a handful of relevant additions to what SYSLOG
normally carries. The fields are separated by a vertical bar.
CEF records are easily recognized by "`CEF:`" at the start
of the free-form text.

Using such well-known methods as recognized tags and variable=value
patters allows unstructured services like SYSLOG to carry even the most
organized reporting.

## What about Windows?

Microsoft Windows is not a Unix-based system.
Dirty little secret: The system we know as Windows has been copying
features of Unix from the earliest days of MS-DOS. (I state without
attribution. We can talk about it later.)

Windows does not have a `syslog()` call.
It *does* have its own event logger.

Lately, Windows also handles most of the system calls used by Linux,
including those calls needed for SYSLOG. We can only speculate
where Microsoft might have taken WSL. So guess what. Windows has
a `syslog()` call. (Don't talk about it in front of the kids, honey.)

## Whither Log4j

Remember that brouhaha toward the end of 2021?
Vulnerabilities in the then-current releases of Log4j allowed for
local execution of malicious payloads. It was a zero day problem.
Millions of people worked hard to patch and update. Today the story
is mostly in the past.

As purely an event logger,
Log4j should never have existed.
Java should have a means of calling SYSLOG directly.
(Java should fake it or emulate it on Windoze, maybe feeding
the Event Logger.)

This article is not about Java, strengths, shortcomings, etc.
But Java still does not provide a great number of POSIX capabilities,
unless one wants to go native. (I'm keen on native, but it takes you
out of the "run everywhere" scope of the Java ecosystem.)

Back to the SEIM topic.

## Who You Gonna Trust?

It's all about trust.
That might be a deciding factor when considering whether to use
the system-provided event logger or re-invent your own.

The norm should be call `syslog()`. But that means you have to trust
the sysadmin to configure the system logger. The sysadmin configures
everything else. If you trust that then you should trust SYSLOG.

Aside: if you don't trust the sysadmin, it's arguable that
you have bigger problems than lack of trustworthy logging.

In any case, SYSLOG is your best starting point.
Look into it. Learn it. Lean on it. Maybe you'll like it.
If not, you'll at least have a strong reference for reinventing
your own wheel. (Or just roll down the hill on logs.
See what I did there?)

## notes and links

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security_information_and_event_management

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_Datagram_Protocol

https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/what-is-apache-log4j-vulnerability/

And of course ...

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syslog

2022-12-09 Friday and following


