# A Petition for Partitionless

Dirty little secret:
disk partitions are an illusion.

There are no physical barriers between partitions.
There is no mechanical or electrical structure associated with partitioning.

The point of this post is to let y'all know that partitioning is
not always needed. Think outside the box. Don't get wrapped around
the axle thinking that you *have to* create and maintain a partition
table before you can use that shiny new disk.

## Why Partition?

Let's go back in history. Why do partitions exist?
In the days when 5M was considered a lot of storage,
engineers wanted a way to save some space for different purposes.
So they invented a way to slice up the disk. Consumers came to believe
that partitioning was a feature of hard disks. We got accustomed to it.

A partition table is similar to a Volume Table of Contents (VTOC)
on a mainframe disk. A VTOC tells the operating system what data sets
exist on the disk and where they are located. But a VTOC is not needed
where other cataloging methods are available. Similarly, a partition
table is not needed where there are other indicators describing the content.
(Think "filesystem".)

## Pushing Partitionless

I've been pushing for folks to go partition free for many years.
Depending on case-by-case use, partitioning might not buy you anything.
In some cases, partitioning actually *hinders* interoperability
of the media.

In all cases (these days), a partition table is nothing more than
a bit of metadata intended for consumption by the operating systems
(and BIOS, of course). Enforcement of the supposed boundaries
is done by software, not by the hardware.

When I was younger, and personal computers were a new thing,
I had the idea that "partitioning" was something physical that we did
to the media. That would be true for storage systems that expose
tracks and records, but storage systems don't expose those ...
unless you want to run entirely on floppy disks. (But then, floppies
aren't partitioned. Go figure!)

When I first ran partitionless, I was delighted to find flawless behavior
from a certain old PC. This machine was our main server for a time.
The filesystem left room for the bootstrap code and the BIOS obediently
loaded it from (essentially) "offset zero". Most modern filesystems still
leave sufficient space for bootstrap code of various flavors. So I created
the filesystem at the start of the disk (no partitions) and then stamped
the bootstrap. The old box served us well for several years never once
complaining "where's the partition table?".

## What's On That Disk?

More often than not, a disk (or flash drive, or any storage media)
will have one (and only one) "partition". It will have one partition
because it will have one (and only one) filesystem. So what does
the partition table do for us? Not much.

Some might argue that the partition table identifies the filesystem type.
That's not true. That's a misconception. Filesystems (and their types)
are readily recognized by their structure and by certain "magic numbers".
Each different filesystem type has its own fingerprint, so to speak.
For example, NTFS is recognized as NTFS and is never confused for EXT4
or ZFS or ISO9660. So a partition table saying "this is an NTFS filesystem"
is simply not needed. In fact, most modern operating systems would,
when instead finding a VFAT filesystem, respond like, "Nope. Not NTFS.
But I know what to do.".

The problem is not waste of space but waste of logic.
When what you're after is the filesystem within the partition,
getting past the partition table is an extra step that ideally
isn't needed. The partition table *gets in the way* of what you want.

## Improving on Antiquity

Here's a minor jab at GPT (the new "GUID Partition Table").

The inventors of UEFI did an important job. They upgraded the standard
we had known as BIOS. I won't recount the improvements of UEFI over BIOS,
but one downside is firmer entrenchment of the partitioning concept.
UEFI relies more heavily on the partition table (now GPT versus the old
MBR style table) to know what to do. This is sad.

For a bootable disk, a better BIOS will, in absence of a table,
look to the first block on disk and load that to bring up the system.
Significantly, not all disks are bootable. In a large system,
*most* of the disks are not bootable, so the BIOS or UEFI would
never be tapped to figure things out. This means that loading a bootstrap
is not needed.

The jab is this:
GPT should not be mandatory for bootable disks.
(I am fully conscious of the security issues and that GPT can help.
That's another topic.)

Here's hoping that I haven't lost the audience.
Honestly, GPT is neat stuff. The very idea of using UUIDs is awesome!
My argument is only that GPT should not be *required*.

## Consider Logical Volumes

Rather than using partitions, think about perhaps using logical volumes.
For many cases (perhaps "most"), what's really needed is a flexible
logical volume rather than a rigid partition. Logical volumes can grow
much more easily than partitions. Logical volumes can span physical
volumes.

For those unfamiliar with logical volumes, one or more physical volumes
(PVs, i.e., partitions or whole disks) are associated with a volume group
(VG) from which one or more
logical volumes (LVs) are allocated. Here's the rub: when using logical
volume management, large numbers of PVs might be used, commonly waaay
more than partitions. And you can give them meaningful names!

PVs are, like filesystems, reliably recognized by their "fingerprint".
There's no need at all to use a partition table to indicate "this is
a PV for a volume group". Simply bring the devices online and run
`pvcreate` and skip the partitioning. It makes most sense to stamp
the entire device (the whole disk) as the PV rather than a "partition".

## Better for Virtual

I said that partitioning gets in the way of what you want. Not always,
but often. And in a world with more and more virtualization,
partitioning definitely can get in the way.

From within a virtual machine, there is the kernel helping out.
If the media has a partition table, the kernel will recognize it
and will present the partitions as individual devices. But servicing
virtual machines commonly involves working with guest files
outside of the virtual space. This is where you really *don't* want
a partition table.

Virtual disks can be carved out from lots of different kinds of spaces.
Most often, they are *files* on the host. To manage a virtual disk
(really a filesystem within that virtual disk), one can handily
"loop back mount" the filesystem on the host. Here's where the partition
table gets in the way: you must skip over the table to get to the data.
This is awkward: you have to define the loop-back device with an offset.
Servicing is much more straight-forward when there is no partition table.
The guest (virtual machine) will happily use (what appears to be) the
unpartitioned "disk" and mount the filesystem. Then when, for various
reasons, you need to work on that filesystem *outside* of the guest
you can do so in a pinch without the complexity of applying an offset.
Aaaaaahhhhh.....

## Just Another Filesystem

Step back a bit.
Look again at that partition table.
See that it's really just a filesystem.
It's a very *crude* filesystem, to be sure, but a filesystem even so.
Its "files" are the partitions. We might be better served if the kernel
allowed "mounting" a volume with a partition table as just another
filesystem. The files would have boring names: `1`, `2`, `3`, ... or perhaps
`8ce149b9-8c61-4cc3-bc12-924e1b8ef6fb`, `bedd368e-7ea7-4733-8fc3-42e902290b07`,
`4d39c9b4-3ee7-46f8-8bbb-46961042c203`.

The purpose of this post is to spread the word, describe what partitioning
really is, announce that it's not always needed, and especially that storage
(today) is just bytes. It would be really nice to see ...

* virtual disks w/o partitioning (just filesystems)
* physical volumes (PVs) at offset zero
* removable media not requiring partition tables

Think outside the box!

2023-02-27 Monday


