# Saddle Up

*Saddle-up your horses!*

Here are the lyrics to a favorite song.

## The Usual Way

*Started out this mornin in the usual way,* <br/>
*chasin thoughts inside my head of all I had to do today.* <br/>
*Another time around the cirle; try to make it better than the last.*

That's my life. <br/>
I have chosen a career in technology. It's fun!
But it's also filled with "thoughts inside my head of all I had to do today".

## Grace and Glory

*I opened up the Bible and I read about me.* <br/>
*Said I'd been a prisoner and God's grace had set me free.* <br/>
*Then somewhere between the pages it hit me like a lightening bolt.* <br/>
*I saw a big frontier in front of me and I heard somebody say, "let's go!".*

This song has been a favorite since long before I lost Marilyn,
way before I had eternity in my face. He has demonstrated His grace and glory
in my life so many times. There is pain, yes. But it's better to know
that your life is in His hands. It's peace, really.

## Scary Unknown

*Saddle-up your horses! We've got a trail to blaze* <br/>
*through the wild blue yonder of God's amazing Grace.* <br/>
*Let's follow our Leader into the glorious unknown!* <br/>
*This is a life like no other. This is the Great Adventure!*

It's terrifying, actually. <br/>
There's so much unknown! But that's really true no matter what path you choose. <br/>
I choose to follow a Leader who knows where we're going.

YouTube offered up a video of this song today,
when yesterday we had heard about a tragic loss:
a husband and father was driving his two oldest girls to a dance competition.
They were all three killed in a head-on collision with a semi.
I didn't know them, but Susan did, and other friends and family were very close to them.
The pain is deep, and it's not even "my" loss. (Though I have known loss.)

## Long-faced versus Life

*Come on, get ready, for the ride of your life.* <br/>
*Gonna leave long-face religion in a cloud of dust behind ...*

THIS is what it's all about!
When I was very young, my family attended a "dead" church.
In those days, I went to a parochial school (not Catholic, doesn't matter).
I had so much "long-face religion". I could tolerate it, but it was dry,
empty, lifeless. But knowing Christ means leaving "religion", per se,
in the dust behind you.

I see and read about a lot of people who have been hurt by the Church.
Many walk away from the faith. I see lots of churches more focused on
a rock concert than on The Rock, which is Christ. It's so sad.

But life with Christ *is* exciting.
It's just not a perpetual playtime, not all hyped-up.
It's peace and power and perspective.

## This is What We Were Created For

*... and discover all the new horizons just waiting to be explored.* <br/>
*This is what we were created for!*

I've been saying that: to relate with our Creator is what we were made for. <br/>
I've been saying that a lot. This is the purpose of life, to know Jesus.

Before I got saved,
I feared the Christian walk. I thought God would take away my techie bent
and force me into some constraining mold.

But I *had* to believe. That's a whole nutha story.
And since then, He has put my priorities in order and given me pleasures aplenty.
Yes, He has taken away some things which I clung to, but I find that He
only took away things which were harmful.

## Mountains and Valleys

If you know the song, sign it with Steve and me:

*Saddle-up your horses! We've got a trail to blaze* <br/>
*through the wild blue yonder of God's amazing Grace.* <br/>
*Let's follow our Leader into the glorious unknown!* <br/>
*This is a life like no other. This is the Great Adventure!*

*We'll travel onward, over mountains so high.* <br/>
*We'll go through valleys below.* <br/>
*Still, though it all, we'll find that* <br/>
*this is the greatest journey that the human heart will ever see.* <br/>
*The love of God will take us far beyond our wildest dreams.*

I can't say it any better: <br/>
There is unspeakable joy in riding with Jesus.

*Saddle up your horses.* <br/>
*Come on, get ready to ride.* <br/>
*Saddle-up your horses! We've got a trail to blaze* <br/>
*through the wild blue yonder of God's amazing Grace.* <br/>
*Let's follow our Leader into the glorious unknown!* <br/>
*This is a life like no other. This is the Great Adventure!*

2023-06-30 Friday

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hVFPjIp6nkk


