# Billdad

I called him "Billdad" playfully,
remembering "Bildad the Shuhite", one of Job's friends.
But Dad was not so foolish as Job's friends, so it was just soundalike.

## The Franchise

Dad found "The Franchise Boom" (Harry Kursh, 1968) and read it.
He had been in sales with H.H. Robertson and was doing well,
but he got bit by the bug of being his own boss. He became a franchisee
of Accounting Personnel, but they (franchisor) went out of business.
Ouch! So he restarted his placement agency under The Troth Corporation,
which has persisted until today, matching people with jobs.

Dad had a keen mind for business.
Years later, his best pastoral roles were administrative.
But that didn't make him one dimensional: he was gifted in counseling
and especially in teaching.

He had his own business and that was great, but he changed careers. <br/>
We'll get to that.

## The Discussion Group

Mom helped. When you have your own business, sometimes you need
supplemental revenue. In Mom's work, she met a lady (whose name I now
cannot remember) who had ... something. The woman invited Mom and Dad
to a "discussion group" about God and life. Dad was disinclined to add
yet more religious activity to their schedule: on the board of elders,
teaching adult Sunday School. But Mom wanted to be friends with this gal
and pressured him. Being a good husband, he caved.

The world would identify them as good American Christians:
2.8 kids, comfortable middle-class home in the suburbs, two cars,
occasional dogs, even a cat, dedicated to their church. They were
successful. Not rich, but doing well enough to keep their children in
private school. I grew up in a Catholic town, going to a Presbyterian
church, attending an Episcopal school, with a lot of Jewish classmates.

## If That's What it Takes

What does it mean to be a Christian?

I carry a personal burden that people don't think. <br/>
What I mean is that we don't follow things through.

*"When you have eliminated all which is impossible, <br/>
then whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth."* <br/>
\-\- Arthur Conan Doyle, The Case-Book of Sherlock Holmes 

So in this discussion group, they went through the Bible and found
what it said about God, man, sin, the cross. Even with years in church
Dad (and Mom) had never understood the Gospel. At one point, Dad said,
"If that's what it takes to be saved, I guess I'm not.".

## Come on in, Lord

In those days, "The Late Great Planet Earth" by Hal Lindsey was
all the rage. Dad was reading that when he got to a citation of
Revelation 3:20.

*"Behold, I stand at the door and knock; if anyone hears My voice
and opens the door, I will come in to him and will dine with him,
and he with Me."*

I have a memory of being in another room, hearing Dad open the front door,
then closing it, and Mom inquiring, "Bill?". "Everything is fine.".
Dad's own testimony is that he did in fact get up, walk to the door,
open it and say, "Come on in, Lord.".

Romans 10:8-10 says,

*"But what does it say? 'The word is near you, in your mouth and
in your heart' - that is, the word of faith which we are preaching,
that if you confess with your mouth Jesus as Lord, and believe in your
heart that God raised Him from the dead, you will be saved; for with the
heart a person believes, resulting in righteousness, and with the mouth
he confesses, resulting in salvation."*

## The Roman Road

There is what many call "the Roman Road Map" or just "the Roman Road",
selected verses from the book of Romans which discuss salvation.
But ya gotta follow things through, consider what it's saying.

Romans 3:23

*" ... for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God ... "*

Romans 6:23

*"For the wages of sin is death,
but the gracious gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord."*

Romans 5:8

*"But God demonstrates His own love toward us, in that
while we were still sinners, Christ died for us."*

We go to church. We hear about Jesus. We see the cross. What does
it mean? Jesus died on a cross. But why? Paul said in I Timothy 1:15,
*" ... Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners,
among whom I am foremost."*. Dad was changed.

The love of God is astonishing.

## The Bill and Bill Show

He started sharing this with friends, family, coworkers,
even clients. It's kind of entertaining.

His business partner, also named Bill, was also a Believer,
and had grown up Catholic. Of course Dad had grown up Protestant.
So the secretary, Dale, a dear friend, also now a Believer, would
inquire enough background of the incoming job seeker in order to decide
if they were Catholic leaning or Protestant leaning in order to know
which Bill to direct the victim to.

[pause for laughter]

They had a weekly Bible study. That's another story.
But they touched lives.

## The Seminary Years

After a time, Dad wondered if he should pursue formal training.
He applied to Dallas Theological Seminary and was accepted ...
at the tender age of 40. That's in Texas. I didn't want to go,
but Mom said the girls were pretty in Texas. She was right!

Dallas is where we all learned a lesson in how God takes care of
his people. <br/> The woman who led my sister and me to faith in Christ
had a daughter who committed to supporting my parents at that time.
This girl didn't have a lot of money. But she was faithful:
one dollar every month.

Graduate school is tough. It's hard enough just from the academics.
It's harder still on the finances. Somehow they did not let Diane and me
feel the pain. We didn't know we were poor.

But the day came when there was no money in the bank and no cash on hand
and it was my grandfather's birthday. How was my mom supposed to buy a
birthday card for her dad? Then in the mail came Charlotte's dollar.
God's timing is perfect.

## Graduation and Ordination ... and Work

Dad squeezed four years into five and earned his ThM in 1981.
He was ordained that same year for ministry at Lakeside Baptist Church.
With his DTS diploma he could pastor lots of Evangelical churches.
With his Lakeside ordination he could also pastor the Baptist churches.
Nifty.

It's sad to think that one must get four+ years of advanced education
to take a cut in pay. But we do what we love. Dad loved sharing the
Gospel and shepherding the flock. Jesus asked Peter, "Simon, son of John,
do you love Me?". Peter said, "Yes, Lord. You know that I love You.".
Jesus said, "Shepherd My sheep.". (John 21:15-17) And that's what Dad did.

His first job was back in New Orleans. I was at school in Texas.
The second job was as pastor of Believer's Bible Church in Lufkin, Texas.
That's where I met Marilyn. Dad married us. My fondest memory of his
tenure there was a praise gathering where Dad partnered with several
other churches in the area. Talk about diversity and inclusion,
see I Corinthians 12:4-6. They were different denominations
with their own ideals and ideas, but they came together.

*"Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit.
And there are varieties of ministries, and the same Lord.
There are varieties of effects, but the same God who works
all things in all persons."*

After Chelle was born, his first grandchild, he took a job at Parkway
Bible Church in the Scarborough suburb of Toronto. Dad was worried about
all the snow up there in Canada. I think it was Pastor Ken Quick who
told him, "We get less snow than Buffalo!". That was small comfort
for a guy born in Birmingham.

## "Dad, write"

In later years, Dad's work was filling-in where he could.
A major role was working for Edwin Hodges in Decatur, Alabama.

He had some astute observations. I was always proud to introduce him
to my friends. It was from Dad that I acquired a strong sense of
aggressively pursuing the Truth wherever it leads. I encouraged him to write.
He did! He had written about the office Bible study back in New Orleans.
He titled it, "The Office Bible Study". I told him it was a lame title.
Gotta have a good title! So it became, "Tuesday at Noon", custom printing.

The better known book, which my brother in law has had to haul around,
is, "The Milk and Honey Man", which talks about the journey of the Jews
from Egypt to the Promised Land. The point is allegory, that what happened
to them was written for us. It's available, free of charge, professionally
published, in the lobby. Reads like a text book because it *is* a text book.

## Palm or Fist

Let me leave you with the most significant thing Dad taught me. <br/>
There are two responses to God: either a clenched fist or an open palm.

The love of God is astonishing. Life is hard; often *really* hard.
Two truths on opposite sides of the same coin. I'd love to talk to you
if you have questions.

After Mom's parents died (they had been living with mine), and then also
Dad's mom passed, he moved himself and Mom to be near Diane. It was smart
to be near family. I didn't like the idea of facing aging, but he was wise.

He cared for Helene until she graduated. Then he married Carolyn and
cared for her. As part of that caring, he really hoped to outlive her.
God had a different plan.

When Marilyn was stricken with cancer, Dad came to support us. He was
there when she graduated. He and Carolyn were both there for her memorial.
He was one of several who helped me navigate a very hard time. I was
angry, hurt, alone.

When you leave that palm open, God can put gifts into your hand.
I met Susan. Dad was so supportive. And I'm so thankful that she
got to know him in this life. I love my dad. I will miss him.

We are not made for this life.
We are made for eternity ... with our Creator.
This life is an opportunity for us to learn to relate,
relate to family, friends, and especially with our Lord and Savior.
He's like AMEX, don't leave this life without Him.

## Blondin's Wheelbarrow

This was one of Dad's favorite stories.

Charles Blondin was a French-born funambulist. That's a Tightrope walker.
You didn't expect to attend a funeral and have your vocabulary expanded.

[pause for laughter]

Blondin became famous for walking across the Niagara Gorge. <br/>
In the 1800s, his name became synonymous with tightrope walking.
He repeated the feat many times, and varied the act, occasionally
pushing a wheelbarrow. The story goes that he could carry a person
across the wire in the wheelbarrow. "Do you think I can do it?".
The crowd all exclaimed "YES". But nobody volunteered to get in.

The way Dad told it, salvation is like that. Jesus is able to
carry us to the other side. Do you think He can do it? <br/>
Then get in!


