# End of a Year, End of an Era

I'm staring at my laptop.
The background photo is Marilyn and me shortly after
we were first married, taken at Mike's house in Austin.

## Photos and Recollections

There was a New Year's Eve event for South Bend.
Scott and Diane had planned to go, but then all the stuff with
Marilyn's illness happened and they cancelled it. But NYE approaching,
what we we going to do? So Diane asked me what I thought about their
original plan. I thought it would be good to get out of the house.
(Better than three hours of Ryan Seacrest and the Dick Clark party.)

Martin went with Billie to find 80s themed outfits.
He found something for me too. Good stuff. I really appreciate what he
picked out for me. Diane took our picture. We looked the part,
so I wanted to send it to Chelle. Went to my "gallery" of photos,
sent the one to Chelle, and then noticed a year worth of snapshots.

In reverse order ...

* the hospital (though I don't have that really touching selfie)
* Chelle's birthday in the hospital
* a selfie of me (for Marilyn) going to meet a customer
* Maggie's wedding (Marilyn and I danced, but that's not in this set)
* various repairs I did this past year
* Marilyn's countdown clock for when she'd be home, "Seeing Rick"
* a video of Tasha singing for Mommie hundreds of miles away
* drinking wine together ... er, uh ... at the same time (1400 miles apart)
* Gene's funeral
* Caroline's wedding (I went alone)
* Jo Ann's birthday
* Marilyn and me laughing (why and at what I do not know!)
* another business trip, drinking tequila together (meaning same time)
* Christmas 2018 in Virginia
* buying the Camry, trading in the Prius, trading in the Suburban
* buying Martin's Ford Fusion
* Chelle's birthday LAST year
* Martin moving out, the three of us in his empty room, then in the loaded truck

I've repeatedly said how I've been alone for most of 2019.
The up-side (at the time) was anticipation of my Beloved returning,
which she did. Then Someone took her away again.

2019-12-31 Tuesday


