# Lufkin

Back to where it all started.

We arrived in Lufkin late last night.
Today (Friday), Chelle and Martin and I had several errands to run.
First, we had to meet with Bob Klund, pastor of Believer's Bible Church.

## Believer's Bible Church

This is where we met.
First time I saw her, a group from church went out caroling.
We were in different cars, but I kept noticing the girl at the end
of the row. A few days later, in the parking lot of the church,
she rolled down her car window to talk, or maybe just to flirt.

In those days, my dad was pastoring this church.
I previously recounted the story of how he approached Gene and Jo Ann
for permission to speak with Marilyn about playing for Sunday services.

Bob's office used to be my dad's office.

## Life and Memories

Every corner of this town reminds me of her.
My time living in Lufkin was short, and then I went back to school.

We broke up once or twice. When I went back to A&M, she decided
that she wanted to be serious and *not* break up. I'd come to town
on weekends to see her. One night, we went to see Back to the Future.
The kids and I drove past a movie theatre today which is now used for
some other business. I think that's the one we went to back then.
Later, while parked in the driveway of her parents house, I asked her
to marry me. She thought about it for a whiel, then said "yes, I'll marry you.".

## review

Altering this post after review.
My sister sent me selections from Psalm 71.

Many friends and colleagues have watched this rapid and painful saga.

Throughout Marilyn's illness, and since then, we've sought to give
glory to God.

Psalm 71:7,8

"I have become as a wonder to many, but You are my strong refuge.
Let my mouth be filled with Your praise and with Your glory all the day."

My life is over. Understand, that's how I FEEL.

Many have provided support beyond what I can repay or even properly thank.
The Lord provided them. The Lord will eventually heal the wound.

Psalm 71:20

"You, who have shown me great and severe troubles, shall revive me again,
and bring me up again from the depths of the earth."

Amen, may it be so.

2019-12-20


