# Two of Two

I find myself the first one ready for the service,
slacks, shirt, tie. Marilyn would be glad for anyone not making us late.

Today we held the second of two services for my wife Marilyn.
Today we took her body to Fielder cemetery just outside Lufkin.
I look forward to the resurrection when she will arise healthy
and perfected.

## Remembering Roots

This is a homecoming. This is where Marilyn grew up.
Many have left the area. Many are no longer with us.
But several came from great distances to be with us.

Bob Klund led us in remembering Marilyn. Most of the material
was the same as Brian Kinnett shared on Wednesday, but might be
new to the group attending today. It was all very thoughtful.
Being in Lufkin brought a number of Lufkin-specific memories to mind.

When we met with Bob yesterday (Friday), he prayed that God would be
glorified in this. Later I saw reference to Ephesians 3:20,21.

## Faithful Friends

Most of the attendees came from a distance. 
ALL of them deserve mention, but of particular note:

Danny and Lori Davids came up from Houston.
Lori helped Marilyn prepare our Houston home for sale while I was
already in Ohio and Marilyn had to carry that load by herself.

Jube Dankworth, with her son James, came down from Ft. Worth.
Jube's husband Jim could not make the trip. Jim and Jube are pillars
in the Texas home schooling community. Home schooling is how we met them,
but they became much more to us than just fellow home schoolers.
Their daughter Joy was one of Chelle's closest friends from Texas
and passed away after childbirth a little over a year ago.

Terry Dobrec Nichtberger was there too.
She's Marilyn's best friend from childhood.

Dave Wange came down from Garland with his daughter Kristin.
He stood in our wedding. I was glad for Kristin to meet Chelle and Martin.

Chris and Laura King came over from College Station.
Chris was best man at our wedding.

## Resting with Relatives

Fielder Cemetery is about 5 miles off the loop from the US 59 side
(the East side) of Lufkin. It's in the community of Homer (where Gene
grew up), about 500 feet from the boundary of the community of Bald Hill
(where Jo Ann grew up).

After a really great memorial service at the funeral home,
we proceded to Fielder along US 59 (the loop) and then down US 69.
This is familiar stomping ground for me and especially for Marilyn.
We then turned onto FM 326 and FM 218. It's not as far as I remember.

We found markers of many family members.

It's been a long day.

2019-12-21


