# One of Two

Last night we had the first of two services for my wife Marilyn.

Some people came for the visitation but could not stay.
Others were there for the service. Some came from far away.

## True Friends

My friend and co-worker Phil lives in Virginia right between
where Chelle lives and where Martin lives. For Phil to make the trip
meant not only cost but also substantial personal effort. But he came.

My friend Bill Bitner drove some eight hours from Binghamton, New York.
Bill is a strong Believer. He observed that we were "entertaining angels".
(From Hebrews 13:2, though not quite in context, I'll take it! They ARE
watching.) That meant a lot to me. We've prayed throughout this ordeal
that God would be glorified.

Chris King was best man at our wedding.
But the story with Chris goes back way before our wedding. I call him
my best friend. He and I have had a strong bond along several lines for
many years. It was Marilyn who first called him my best friend. He had
come to Lufkin (probably for Thanksgiving). At dinner time, Chris started
choking. (I thought he was joking.) Marilyn said, "his best friend is
choking!", and I realized, oh yeah, this guy is my best friend.

There's even more: Some time before that Thanksgiving, I had gone to
Del Rio to visit with Chris and his family. (Possibly also Thanksgiving.)
We went to church while there. I met some of his friends. The friends
turned out to be COUSINS of Marilyn. And then at our wedding, other cousins
from Del Rio saw the young man standing beside me and asked each other,
"What is Ronnie doing here?". (Chris went by his middle name growing up
since his dad went by Chris.)

Marilyn loved Chris.

## True Memorial

So many others came. Those who could not sent heartfelt tributes.

Marilyn touched so many lives.

My dad recounted when he and Marilyn first met.
He had just taken the job as pastor at Believer's Bible Church.
He wanted things to run smoothly, so he was looking for a regular
pianist and heard that Marilyn played. So he asked Gene and Jo Ann
if he could speak with their daughter. Marilyn was nervous,
"Why does the pastor want to talk to me?". But he just wanted to
get her help with the music.

Later, Dad tied the knot. When we got engaged, since he was our pastor, 
we asked him to perform our wedding.

Dennis Mishne spoke about how he and Penelope first met us.
We had come to Ohio from Texas. Marilyn found Home on the Rock,
the home schooling support group we joined. Dennis and Penelope
became some of our dearest friends. He recounted funny stories
about the strange Texans who invaded HOTR and the Grove City area.
Several people commented that they really liked how Dennis put it.

Chelle and Martin both spoke.
They've become incredible adults and attributed their success
to their mom who gave up her career to pour into their lives.
She would have said it was no sacrifice.

Brian Kinnett headed up the service for us.
After the others had spoken, he recounted Marilyn's faith,
which was consistent, clear, and simple. She had a servant's heart,
CONSTANTLY doing for others. He remembered from the time when she and I
were in the class he and his wife Rhonda host, that Marilyn had a vital
appreciation for the Truth, God's Truth, and that she pursued it
earnestly.

## True Legacy

In our hallway is a photo of the four of us from the trip we took
to Costa Rica with Gene and Jo Ann (and Michael, Barbara, and Matthew).
That picture is a favorite, so Chelle asked me to find the original
(on a CD from the photographer). I found the CD set, found that photo,
and found other photos. One of them especially touched me.
I showed it to Chelle and to Martin.

We've told people, instead of sending flowers, make a donation to
Samaritan's Purse in Marilyn's name. Turns out that their site allows
creation of memorial pages. Martin established a memorial page for Marilyn.
He cropped that same photo to use for the memorial page.

https://www.samaritanspurse.org/memorial-page/marilyn-troth-grove-city-oh/

We're blessed by the huge outpouring. Carol Morehart, for example,
could not attend the service but left a beautiful note describing
her time with Marilyn. Marilyn's cousin Donnette Tyler shared that
Marilyn was her Christian role model.

After the service, we went back to our house and visited more
with family and friends. It was good. God is good.

2019-12-19


