Marilyn/2019/20191225-christmas-day.md, before:

# Christmas Day

The verse for today would be Luke 2:11 (8-20 for context),
but I like the perspective of Galatians 4:4-6.

## Gifts

All I had to give this year was some King Bee honey. (Thanks Chris
and Laura!) Good stuff and I think it was a hit! Praise God.

Gifts not exchanged were what Chelle and Martin and I got from Marilyn.
She ordered three BlanQuil brand weighted blankets. They arrived
not too long before she went into the hospital.
We've each already used them.

Thoughtful gifts were shared.
It was nice just to be with Diane and Scott and Billie.

## the Tozer book

Back in my room, I picked up the Tozer book.
At the end of chapter 9, on page 110 I saw this ... 

*Lord, make me childlike.
Deliver me from the urge to compete with another for place or prestige
or position. I would be simple and artless as a little child. Deliver me
from pose or pretense. Forgive me for thinking of myself. Help me to
forget myself and find my true peace in beholding Thee. That Thou may
answer this prayer I humble myself before Thee. Lay upon me Thy
easy yoke of self-forgetfulness that through it I may find rest.
Amen.*

Below it is hand-written, "Marilyn: 04/10/08".

## Family Fellowship

After gift exchange, we played poker. We used Martin's new chip set.

Bill (my dad) and Carolyn (his wife) came over right at 2.

We had Christmas dinner.

We then played more games: Dice 10000 and Relative Insanity.

## Christmas Day

Many scholars agree that Jesus was not born on December 25th.
Marilyn and I have known this for years and it doesn't bother us.
In our culture, it's the day we remember Jesus' birth.

"But when the fullness of the time had come, God sent forth His Son,
born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law,
that we might receive the adoption as sons. And because you are sons,
God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into your hearts,
crying out, 'Abba, Father!'."

Abba, help us.

2019-12-25

Commit message:

Christmas Day in Granger - rev 2

Marilyn/2019/20191225-christmas-day.md, after:

# Christmas Day

The verse for today would be Luke 2:11 (8-20 for context),
but I like the perspective of Galatians 4:4-6.

## Gifts

All I had to give this year was some King Bee honey. (Thanks Chris
and Laura!) Good stuff and I think it was a hit! Praise God!

Gifts not exchanged were what Chelle and Martin and I got from Marilyn.
She ordered three BlanQuil brand weighted blankets. They arrived
not too long before she went into the hospital.
We've each already used them. Early Christmas gift ... and from Mom.

At the Bennetts', thoughtful gifts were shared.
It was nice just to be with Diane and Scott and Billie.

## the Tozer book

Back in my room, I picked up the Tozer book that I got from Chelle
yesterday. (Haven't personally read much Tozer, but am generally a fan.)
At the end of chapter 9, on page 110 I saw this ... 

*Lord, make me childlike.
Deliver me from the urge to compete with another for place or prestige
or position. I would be simple and artless as a little child. Deliver me
from pose or pretense. Forgive me for thinking of myself. Help me to
forget myself and find my true peace in beholding Thee. That Thou may
answer this prayer I humble myself before Thee. Lay upon me Thy
easy yoke of self-forgetfulness that through it I may find rest.
Amen.*

Below it is hand-written, "Marilyn: 04/10/08".

## Family Fellowship

After gift exchange, we played poker. We used Martin's new chip set.

Bill (my dad) and Carolyn (his wife) came over right at 2.

We had Christmas dinner.

We then played more games: Dice 10000 and Relative Insanity.

## Christmas Day

Many scholars agree that Jesus was not born on December 25th.
Marilyn and I have known this for years and it doesn't bother us.
In our culture, it's the day we remember Jesus' birth.

"But when the fullness of the time had come, God sent forth His Son,
born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law,
that we might receive the adoption as sons. And because you are sons,
God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into your hearts,
crying out, 'Abba, Father!'."

Abba, help us.

This is not the Christmas we planned, but it is the Christmas we have.

2019-12-25
