# Miss You

I miss you.

Every day, several times a day, I wish you were here.

## Our Home

The house that we built became a home.
The building itself is nothing, but it's arranged perfectly
for our family. Martin and Chelle love it, even though they're
many hours away now.

Yesterday, I pulled into the driveway of that house.
It looks so nice. There's a section of the front flower bed
that you and I never finished. I'll finish that when the weather
warms up again. Just wish you were here to do it alongside me.

## Your Care

When the kids were born, you became a germ freak.
I picked up on it, and now I still wash my hands carefully
every time I return home from having been out somewhere.

Last night at the men's group, one of the guys talked about
how his wife insists that he use Purell constantly. I told him
that's been my life since Michelle was born. I don't worry about
things like the Corona virus because you gave the kids and me
such a strong habit of cleanliness.

## Your Service

Seems like every day something reminds me of all the things you did
automatically to help people. I've been helping some people.
Feels good. Wish I could say more, details, details.

Interesting that the men are meeting at *our* house,
the house we built specifically for having people over.
It's really the highlight of my week.

## Your Faith

I've been trying to get closer to God.
When you left, it tore a hole in my heart that only He can fill.
So I'm letting him fill it.

Sometimes I'm scared. One of my Grief Share friends asked,
"what next?", and I'm asking the same question. But God is
giving me answers in His time.

Whenever something came up, we were a team. I'd immediately try
to find a solution, knowing the Lord knew the solution. You'd say
to pray about it, knowing the Lord had the solution and just wanted
us to ask Him. The hard part for me now is not having you
to pray about it with me.

## Anniversary

This Sunday is our anniversary. 34 years.

I remember driving through Cleveland, Texas on our way to Houston
as we started our honeymoon. Ironically we moved kinda close to
Cleveland, Ohio. In either place, I am so blessed.

I love you!

2020-03-12 Thursday


