# My Anchor

Today I realized another attribute of Marilyn:
she was my anchor.

## Accountability

I spoke with several friends throughout the day today (Sunday)
and yesterday (Saturday) with very different life experiences
than mine.

Marilyn and I held each other accountable. It was mostly unspoken.
She had strong convictions and she knew mine. I remember once
getting complimented for having "boundaries". Wow. Nice.
Someone noticed.

One of my friends is ... let's just say that he doesn't value
having a committed relationship. By his own choice, he is alone.
His life, without a wife, shows me by comparison how valuable my life,
with my wife, was. (As if I needed the reference. But there it is anyway.)

## Watching and Waiting

One thing that sometimes worries me about my children is that,
neither of them having roommates, who will watch out for them
when they get home late?

Marilyn would check on Chelle and Martin. I'm learning to do
the same. (Though trying to not be intrusive. They're grown adults.)

Who will check on ME?
Thankfully, many friends and family have done that.
(Thank you, and please continue. But mostly also please pray.)

## Responsibility

Tonight I came home to an empty house and no immediate
responsibilities. I miss having Marilyn here to come home to.

I know that she depended on me. I also depended on her.
She was my anchor and I was her rock.

Thank you, God, for putting us together.
I am thankful for those 33 years.

My heart is broken that she is not with me NOW
but I am truly thankful that she was with me THEN.

2020-01-12 Sunday


