# Jackpot

This has post has been a long time coming,
the hardest to write (not due to grief, just the length and depth).

*"Who can find a virtuous wife? For her worth is far above rubies."* --
Proverbs 31:10

## East Texas Treasure

When you're from the big city and move to a small town, it's hard.
But I have always loved the things I find in the small town.

Dad took the job at Believer's Bible Church. I was proud of him.
Diane had to live there. Not slamming Lufkin, a place I love,
but it was hard on Diane for a long time. And then I lived there too.

My sister and I became friends with Marilyn and her brother Matt.
They'd been part of this small church since the begining.
Diane and I shared what we'd seen with youth at churches in the
bigger cities, as if we were all that and served on a silver platter.
Bah! Lufkin had its own tight community. One simply had to grow up there.

But then that girl from Lufkin rolled down her window to chat.
(For varying values of "chat", which some will recognize as "flirt".)
Dad had tapped her as church pianist. Her dad Gene was on the elder
board. And so it began: the pastor's son and the elder's daughter.

I found a diamond in the Piney Woods and had to have her.

## I Married Up

If you're unfamiliar with the term "married up", it means that I married
someone of higher standing. Far be it from me to belittle my own family.
They're incredible. And it's a testimony to *them* that I was accepted
by Marilyn and her family.

Marilyn's mom and dad were members of the local country club.
I suppose all country clubs are nice, but Crown Colony in Lufkin
was especially nice. Countless times Gene and Jo Ann would take us
there for lunch or dinner.

When it came to vacations, I had it so easy.
It was always Gene with the means and Jo Ann with the wherewithal
to make fun excursions happen.

At our wedding, someone asked Gene, "Does he have a job?".
I was still in school. So that was a "no". (Gene never told me
*his* answer to that question.)

When we got engaged, her manager in Lufkin found an opening at the branch
in College Station. That was one of many times Marilyn changed her life
to fit mine. God bless her. Incredible! And soon it was "our" life.

## Mi Familia es Tu Familia

When I married Marilyn, her family became my family.
I love these people.

When she "graduated", we all gathered in Lufkin.
I was afraid of the coming months. Marilyn was the connector
and she's not here anymore. But her people have been some of my
greatest supporters in these months. Praise God!

Most of Marilyn's family have no clue how deeply they've blessed me.

## Unconditional Acceptance

I annoy people. This is not self-deprecating: everybody's got quirks.
Some of my quirks are a challenge for most "normal" people. I annoyed
Marilyn, but she accepted me anyway. That's the single most amazing thing,
that she loved me in spite of my faults. That's God in her!

Throughout this tribute journal,
I've tried to emphasize Marilyn's heart for her Lord, how she
built into other lives, especially family and close friends.
She had very little tolerance for BS, except in my case.

I've told many people that I hit the jackpot with Marilyn.
I fear I'll over-use that word in this post. Too bad, so sad ... NOT.
Gotta use words that work.

I was visiting Chelle and Martin and again said, "I hit the jackpot
with Mom.". Chelle said, "She always said that about you too.".

Really?
She said that about me?
I suppose. I don't see it, but I'll take the compliment!
(These days I take anything God gives me. Thank you, Lord.)

## Unflinching Faithfulness

Marilyn endured leaving our beloved Texas when my work took us to Ohio.

She took care of countless fixes and updates to the house in Houston
while I was already enjoying the novelty of our new location.
She did not complain, but I could tell it was hard work.

Then she packed-up the Suburban, stuffed with necessities, the kids,
and the dog, and booked a room at Hampton Inn. Then she gave me the
easy part: driving to Ohio after I flew back down to meet them.

When we got here, there was yet more work to do related to the move.
We had to find a house, and she handled most of that. We decided
to build, so there were yet more decisions and choices to make.
After nearly a year, the four of us (plus the dog) moved into
our new place, a home intended for hospitality. What a joy!

In Ohio, Marilyn poured herself into the home schooling work.
The "Home on the Rock" support group became our circle of friends.
They were more to us even than church friends. (Being mostly Christians
as it was a Christian group by design.) All of our Ohio friends have
been wonderful, so much deeper than I would have expected.

Home schooling? Whose idea was *that*? Hard work indeed!
I don't want to discourage anyone considering it, because it's great.
(Two beautiful young people, well liked by all, who for their part managed
outstanding college-level results, magna cuum laude thank you very much.)
It was her faithfulness, her devotion to the task, that made it work.

As these things go, Chelle graduated, and then Martin, and our home
schooling mission was complete. Even so, Mom continued to support them
any way she could as they began their college careers.

Marilyn continued to pour herself into her family back in Texas.
Many times, I could not go along. The separation was often hard,
but I was happy to know that she was building-into people I loved.
And then as time allowed, I'd go too. Oh how we love Texas.
(Marilyn and the kids are natives. I got there as quick as I could.
Someone remind me why we left?)

## Legacy and Love

I found our Valentine's Day cards from last year (2019).
I set them out just for fun. Oddly, they do not make me sad.
Maybe the guys will see them when they come over for mens's group.
I won't have any other visitors anytime soon, but am so thankful
to have the group meeting *here*, the house Marilyn built.

I was at Kroger getting gasoline a couple weeks ago.
I was reminded of another Kroger, in Houston, years ago.
Funny how a company based in Cincinnati became part of our fabric,
from Bryan / College Station, through Houston, and then in Grove City.

I am changed.

Picking up a rental car for a business trip earlier this year,
it was so dingy, just shy of downright grimy. No time to have Avis
re-do. I can hear Marilyn admonishing me, "Wipe it down!". Amen, sweetie.
She changed me. God used her to make me a better man. (Not that I
lacked hygiene, mind you! But we all have room for improvement.)

In front of the house, hanging from Martin's window, is a run of
coaxial cable. I put up the antenna while she was in Texas last year.
She just about blew a fuse when she saw it: looks podunk! I am changed.
I don't wanna look podunk. When you lose someone, your life gets reset.
Is this me or is it her? With so many things, it doesn't matter
because it's both: there's no undoing what she did to me.
That's a *good* thing.

God is good. He puts us together for His glory and it's glorious!

## Life After Loss

What can you do when you hit the jackpot and then lose it?

God has carried me out of the grief. He has provided friends,
old and new, who have come alongside. My life will never be the same.
The good news is that the sadness over what I lost has turned to joy
over what I had.

I was always so proud of Marilyn. "Look what I got!"
I wanted to introduce her to all of my friends. But she never liked
being the center of attention.

In fact, she hated to have to perform.
Much as she loved music, she didn't think of herself as a singer.
God gave her an incredible strong alto voice. When we were at Houston
Northwest, I got sucked into the choir. Marilyn did too. She took
a couple of lessons from Any Sheehan (wife of my idol, worship pastor
Stuart Sheehan, herself a fantastic voice coach). First time, Marilyn
called me when driving home. She was excited. "I don't know what came
out of me!"; Amy found it! Later, Marilyn was in tears. Singing
was great, but being constantly "on" for regular music ministry
was too heavy.

I miss her voice.
I miss her piano playing.
I miss her electric smile most of all.

## Perfect Balance

When I say I hit the jackpot,
I mean I got so much more than I could have wished for.

Early in our marriage, I remember looking at a wall (shelving or
something like it). She said we could "get all organized". At the time,
it really bugged me. I'm unstructured. What is this "organized" of which
you speak? But I came to depend on it, and love it. Today I miss it.

For her part, she came to depend on my flexibility.
Not puffing myself up, it's just a natural thing for us "unstructured"
people. We can adjust, usually very quickly. That balanced her.

I am a changed man.
God used Marilyn for 33 years to smooth my rough edges.

I miss the budget she'd work-up.
Oh what peace I had when she wrote down what work the cars needed,
and the timing, pacing out the maintenance. She was a Dave Ramsey
by her own intiution when she wanted to be. Today I'm coping
(just barely) because of what I saw her do and what she set-up.

## Good Days

March 2nd was Jo Ann's birthday. It's been a double whammy for her,
first losing Gene last summer, and now Marilyn. But she said it was
a good day. Got voice mail from her. She had gotten the chocolate
strawberries we sent. She said that helped make her day. Praise God!

I've started to have good days too.
As I write, the good days outnumber the bad days.
Not everyone hit by Marilyn's homegoing are so far along.
(I've had *a lot* of help.) Jo Ann, Chelle, Martin, Mike, Matt, ...
dear God, please help. We all miss her. We all have this gaping hole.

April 18th was a good day for me.
Chelle and Martin, along with Diane, conspired with Trent and Michele
and others here. They made my birthday really special. Somehow, there
was no crash, but a soft landing several days later. God is good.

Just this past week, my sister reminded me,
Marilyn was never mine. She was and is always God's, on loan for a time.

I needed a friend and had a mad crush. God provides!

## Back to the hotel and Back to the Future

On that business trip earlier this year, I met with my colleague for
dinner. We strategized about how we could best deliver what the business
partner needed from us. Back at my hotel after dinner. I wanted to call
Marilyn and talk to her. Yeah ... that's another thing I miss.

Tried to *not* turn on the TV, but eventually did.
Back to the Future was showing. That's the movie we saw
the night I asked her to marry me.

Oh bother ... so here I out more of myself. But it must be told.
After the movie, we went back to her parent's house. We sat there
in the car talking. (Yes, just talking! Don't get any ideas.)
Mister Unstructured had not actually planned it out.
After a while ...

"Will you marry me?"

"Ooooo ... big step."

The girl made me wait! She pondered it for a while.
Maybe she was waiting for the ring? There was no ring!
There was no knee! (Hard to get on one knee in a sedan.)
But she accepted me just as I was.

"Yes, I'll marry you."

A few days later, we were trying to pick a date.
She came prancing into the living room. "Daddy, can we get married
on March 15th?". Gene said "okay" as only he could say it.
And Jo Ann had access to Dallas Market, so that missing ring was
quickly corrected. And now the ring sits in a pouch for safe keeping
until our daughter can use it.

*"Her children rise up and call her blessed; her husband also, and he
praises her: 'Many daughters have done well, but you excel them all.'
Charm is deceitful and beauty is passing, but a woman who fears the Lord,
she shall be praised. Give her the fruit of her hands,
and let her own works praise her in the gates."* --
Proverbs 31:28-31

2020-05-30 Saturday but written over several weeks


