# The New November

November has been a special month for us for a long time.

November is going to be different from now on.

## Davey's November

Through a chain of references, I became acquainted with the story of
Davey Blackburn, a young pastor in Indianapolis. The story of the murder
of his wife Amanda made national news in the fall of 2015. 

Since then, he's been on a journey somewhat like mine.
Obviously what he has gone through is extreme compared to what Chelle and
Martin and I have experienced. He has also had to endure public scrutiny
and journalistic review. But he has turned it into a ministry,
trying to help others.

On Davey's web site are both podcasts and blogs/articles.
I've been listening to a lot of the podcasts.
What he wrote this past November is powerful.

https://www.nothingiswasted.com/blog/november

I can relate to a lot of that.

Davey's ministry is the kind of thing I want to do too.
Building into others and helping them is a major theme in Marilyn's story.

## Our November

November has always been a special month in our family.
On the 11th of November, several years ago, we welcomed a daughter.
That was the start of our multiplying.

We had put off determining the baby's gender, letting it be a surprise.
I remember the attending obstetrician's words ...

"Boy? Girl? Boy? Girl? ... Girl!"

So many good things happen in November.
For one, Thanksgiving is my personal favorite holiday.

November is also when Marilyn went to the Wexner ER. That was the 7th.
Our usual November plans got changed that year. Instead of Marilyn
and me going to Virginia, Chelle and Martin came to Columbus. Chelle
celebrated her birthday in Marilyn's private hospital room.

We later took a family selfie. That's the last photograph of Marilyn.

November will be different going forward.
Not always "bad", but definitely different.

## Finding the Joy

Chelle observed, more than Martin or I did, many points during
Marilyn's hospitalization where things went better than they might have.
On reflection, *much* better. I won't recount those just now.

There was also so much support.

What Davey wrote seemed good to share with the Grief Share group,
so I did. I also posted on Facebook.

What he says at the end of the article is right in-line with Hebrews 12:2,
that Jesus is the author and perfector of our faith, so let Him have
the pen of your story!

I hope y'all find the piece helpful. I sure do!

Going forward, I don't want circumstances or the enemy to steal the
joy which God intends. Somehow I think that's going to be like mining,
and I've certainly been digging.

It helps to focus on what God provided, even if that's not part of one's
present reality. That's like mining too. Gotta be intentional about it.

2020-04-16 Thursday


